Climate activists challenged Germany's motorway and individualized car industry on Saturday in a "day of action" by interrupting autobahn construction and traffic at sites near Berlin, Wittenberg, Dortmund and Kassel — dotted around Germany's 13,000-kilometer (8,100-mile) open speed roading network. The diverse protests led by activist groups such as Robin Wood and Sand in the Gears [Sand im Getriebe] claimed "excessive" costs — put at €200,000 ($243,000) per meter for Berlin's A100 autobahn extension — will exacerbate the global climate crisis instead of being invested in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. At least 400 protesters entered a construction site along Berlin's A100. Others also staged a sit-down blockade, claiming the A100 extension would leave a "trail of destruction through Berlin's middle." Saturday's protests also focused on the partly built A14 Autobahn, which is intended to link the Baltic Sea port city of Wismar in Mecklenburg-West Pomerania state with Dresden city in Saxony state by 2030. The only European country without a general speed limit on most parts of its highways, Germany nonetheless has an excellent network of motorways. They are generally well-maintained, inviting you to explore them. The minimum age for obtaining a driver's license used with a legal guardian present in Germany is 17. An unrestricted car driver's license can be granted at age 18. According to statistics by ADAC, Germany's national automobile association, traffic jams increased by around 15 percent in 2016 as compared to the previous year. That's a lot for a relatively small country. The increase resulted from both more cars on the highway, and more construction sites. So brace yourself for more time and stress in the car, especially around big cities. Even when you think you're soaring down the autobahn, you may get the distinct impression it's still not fast enough. Some German drivers may drive right up behind you and try to "push" you over. They may even flash their headlights to rattle your nerves. You aren't supposed to block the "fast" lane — the aim being to only use it for passing. But don't let pushy drivers bully you! Watch out for speed cameras! They are used widely in Germany, from the autobahn to inner city areas. These box-shaped devices are installed next to the road, and will often catch you unawares. Should you be driving over the speed limit, a ticket will be sent to your house, complete with a picture of you at the wheel and the license plate confirming your offense. Holding a cell phone in your hand while driving is an absolute no-no. If caught, you could be fined 100 euros ($124) and get a one-point penalty against your driver's license. Penalties spike up if you cause an accident, and you may have your license revoked. Fines were raised in 2017. Investing in a hands-free car kit is smarter. Penalties also apply to bicyclists using their cell phones. The same thing goes for not making way for emergency vehicles. Once traffic jams up, you are required to create a lane for ambulances and police, even before you see the flashing lights behind you. If not, you could be fined at least 200 euros (around $250) and get points on your license. The emergency lane is always between the far left and the rest of the lanes. You are also required to set up a warning signal should you break down or have an accident. This means placing an orange metal triangle on the road, donning a fluorescent jacket, both of which you must have in your car. You must also have a first-aid kit stored in your vehicle. In Germany, there's zero tolerance for beginners, as well as for professional drivers. There's a 0.05 percent blood alcohol content (BAC) limit to driving under the influence. Bicyclists may not exceed 0.16 percent. Penalties start at a €500 ($623) fine, points off your license and even a one-month license suspension. Best bet: don't drink and drive! Snow tires are required once streets become slick with slush, ice or snow. In Germany, the rule of thumb is that this can occur anytime between October and Easter. Should you not have snow tires installed on your car and still drive on slippery streets, you could be fined and have points taken off your license. Without proper snow tires, your insurance may also not cover an accident. To navigate both the German autobahn and city streets, the best approach is a zen one: take your time and don't let yourself get frazzled. Besides, with an expansive train and public transportation system in the country, you might not even want to hop into your car, but board a train and put up your feet! Author: Louisa Schaefer At Wittenberge in Brandenburg state, 210 kilometers (130 miles) northwest of Berlin, activists occupied a raft on the river Elbe to protest an A14 segment under construction that also transects Saxony-Anhalt, scene of a key regional state election on Sunday. And near Dortmund in North Rhine-Westphalia state, police said 2,500 activists staged a cycle protest along the multi-lane federal highways (Bundesstrassen) B1 and B54, demanding alternative unhindered fast cycle routing. Near Kassel in Hesse state, 100 protesters staged a 15-minute cycle protest,  riding between an on- and off-ramp of the Autobahn 49. Pedestrians and cyclists are normally strictly banned from Germany's highspeed autobahns, which are restricted to cars and heavy vehicles. During Saturday's protest on Berlin's A100, police detained 13 journalists on trespass charges as they reported on that demostration. The journalists' union DJU, affiliated to the public sector union Verdi, complained over interference. Police claimed the journalists had congregated with the activists instead of observing them at a distance. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hYno ipj/sri (epd, AP, dpa)