Despite the ongoing pandemic situation, the Cannes Film Festival announced that it is still set to return from July 6 to 17 to the Cote d'Azur. Among the 24 directors whose films will be competing for the coveted Palme d'Or prize are several Hollywood directors, including Wes Anderson with The French Dispatch, Paul Verhoeven with Benedetta, and Sean Penn with his new film, Flag Day. Many French directors are also in the running, including Jacques Audiard with Les Oympiades and Francois Ozon with Tout S'est Bien Passe, along with Leos Carax, who will open the festival with Annette — his first oeuvre in a decade and his first work in English. 'Flag Day' is actor Sean Penn's sixth feature film as a director The organizers of the event had some 2,000 films to work through as they made their final selection for the 74th edition of the world's leading film festival following last year's cancellation — a "mini" version of the film festival was held symbolically in October. France is due to lift some remaining pandemic restrictions in time for the festival, but the organizers said that visitors would still need to provide a negative COVID-19 test or proof of vaccination once every two days during the actual event to be allowed to attend. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3kWzt Various underrepresented countries will also be featured at this year's Cannes Film Festival. Iran's two-time Oscar winner, Asghar Farhadi ,will return with his film A Hero, while Russian director Kirill Serebrennikov will be in competition with Petrov's Flu. Another past Palme winner returning to the event is Thailand's Apichatpong Weerasethakul with Memoria, and Chadian director Mahamat-Saleh Haroun has also been shortlisted with Lingui. They will all face a jury headed by US director Spike Lee, who had already been named president for the 2020 event before its cancellation. There will also be some special screenings during the festival, which will be shown outside the main competition — with an apparent focus on various elements of popular culture. These include a documentary about US actor Val Kilmer and a new film about 1960s rock stars The Velvet Underground. French actor Charlotte Gainsbourg will show a film about the life of her mother, the French model, singer and actress Jane Birkin. The streets of Cannes will be less busy this year, as certain restrictions remain in place Oliver Stone will meanwhile present an update to his 1991 classic film, JFK. Stone has reportedly obtained fresh information on the assassination of US President John F. Kennedy in 1963, which he will share in the film JFK Revisited: Through the Looking Glass. The organizers of the Cannes Film Festival have also teased the possibility of a much-anticipated blockbuster being shown during the festival — though it has been confirmed that this will not be the new James Bond film, No Time To Die. It was also announced that US actor Jodie Foster will be awarded an honorary Palme d'Or. The two-time Oscar winner will be the festival’s guest of honor at the opening ceremony on July 6. Cannes general delegate Thierry Fremaux said Foster "never ceases to reinvent herself. She questions with her piercing gaze, learns from others and is willing to step back from her beliefs in order to forge new morals." Jodie Foster is already the recipient of many awards for her work as an actor and director Foster said Cannes was a festival "to which I owe so much; it has completely changed my life." The American star, known for her chilling performance in Silence of the Lambs (1991), first attended Cannes in 1976 at the age of 13 for her role in the Martin Scorsese classic Taxi Driver, which went on to win the Palme d'Or that year. The honorary award was previously given to film greats including Jeanne Moreau, Jane Fonda, Jean-Paul Belmondo, Agnes Varda and Alain Delon. Australia has the virus largely under control. That's pulling in filmmakers. Netflix, Disney Plus and Amazon are not shooting in Hollywood, but in Australia. According to the agency Ausfilm, which supports international film productions, 37 US film projects have been outsourced to the country. Stars like Matt Damon and Nicole Kidman are working in the Land of Oz. Warner Bros. will distribute its new films not only in cinemas, but also through streaming. At least 17 films will simultaneously be released in theaters and on the HBO Max portal in 2021, including "Judas and the Black Messiah" (picture), the "Sopranos" sequel "The Many Saints of Newark" and the superhero film "The Suicide Squad". Cinema operators are worried about the future of their theaters. For the first time in 2020, two Chinese blockbusters made more money in the box office than US films. The war film "The Eight Hundred" (picture) and another Chinese production, the comedy "Love You Forever," brought in more than $2 billion, according to the Hollywood Reporter. In China, the cinemas are open, even if only with a capacity of 50%. Hollywood has recorded financial losses, and less high-profile productions have entered the race for the Oscars on April 25, 2021. Many films from Netflix and Amazon are in the race. Five German arthouse films were due to open in New York cinemas in 2021, including "Berlin Alexanderplatz" by Burhan Qurbani (picture) or the migrant drama "Exile." Now they have to assert themselves online. The films are part of the "Kino! Germany Now!" selection promoted by the German Film Office. Supported by the Goethe-Institute, the initiative aims to increase the visibility of German films. After season 1 of "Bridgerton" topped the Netflix charts in 83 countries and was streamed by 82 million households — more than ever before — a sequel is now due. Since the series is based on many intimate scenes, Phoebe Dynevor, actress of Daphne Bridgerton, has great doubts that a second season can be filmed under current hygiene rules. The first major European film festival, which traditionally takes place in Berlin at the end of January / beginning of February, is being remodeled and rescheduled. Industry professionals will meet digitally in March, when the competition will also run. The award ceremony is planned for June, when the Berlin audience can watch the films. But only if the pandemic is contained by then. The latest James Bond adventure, "No Time to Die," has been postponed again due to the coronavirus pandemic. The new theatrical release should now be October 8, 2021, according to the US production studio MGM. What is probably Daniel Craig's last outing as 007 has been pushed back by a year. The film year 2021 will be different. Because many film releases have been postponed due to closed theaters, cinephiles could possibly expect a concentrated selection from spring or mid-2021. In addition to the new Bond film, the Marvel film "Black Widow" with Scarlett Johansson (picture) as well as the sequel to "Top Gun" with Tom Cruise are on hold. The Cannes Film Festival, which should have been held in May, has been postponed by two months, to July 6-17, 2021. In 2020 it was canceled due to the pandemic. The organizers only published a list of 56 films that they included in the official selection and held a symbolic "mini-festival" in October. Already in 2020, there were documentaries about the outbreak of the pandemic in Wuhan. Now there will be a new contribution in 2021. "In the Same Breath" by Nanfu Wang ("Land of Only Children") tells of misinformation and misconduct on the part of the Chinese and US governments with regard to COVID-19. Author: Sabine Oelze