The Spanish government on Tuesday announced that it would pardon nine Catalan separatists jailed for sedition and misuse of public funds for their role in the region's 2017 independence referendum, which had been deemed unconstitutional. The men had been serving sentences ranging from nine to 13 years after after their 2019 Supreme Court convictions. Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, whose office confirmed that "the pardons for those convicted were approved," told Spaniards — more than 60% of whom disagree with the decision according to polls — that they were granted for the good of the nation. He said the pardons would help turn the page, becoming the first step in resolving the wealthy northern industrial region's conflict with the central government in Madrid. "With this act, we want to open a new stage of dialogue and reconciliation and close once and for all the division and confrontation," he said. As the world watched, Catalonia's parliament voted 70 to 10 for the region to declare its independence from Spain. "Our legitimate parliament has taken a very important step. This is the people's mandate," Puigdemont said after the decision. Dozens of opposition lawmakers from the Socialist Party, Citizens Party and Popular Party had walked out of the parliament chamber to boycott the vote. Within an hour of the Catalan vote, the Spanish Senate in Madrid passed a bill to trigger Article 155 of the Spanish constitution. The measure will allow the central government to suspend Catalonia's autonomy. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he would sack Catalonia’s government and set new regional elections for December 21. European leaders were quick to condemn the independence declaration. EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said the Union "doesn't need any more cracks," while EU Council President Donald Tusk said Madrid "remains our only interlocutor." Leaders in Germany, France, Italy and the UK voiced their support for Madrid. The US also chimed in, saying "Catalonia is an integral part of Spain." Barcelona and Madrid had been in a standoff since 93 percent of voters opted for Catalan independence in an October 1 referendum marred by police violence. Spain said the poll was illegal and stressed the low voter turnout of 43 percent. It subsequently threatened to suspend the region's autonomy if Catalan leaders did not stop their drive for independence. Many had expected tensions to ease on October 26 when Catalan President Carles Puigdemont was expected to call snap elections to bow to a key Spanish government demand. But Puigdemont refused, saying that he did not have enough "guarantees" from Madrid. Instead, he called on the Catalan parliament to decide on how to respond to Spain's threat to suspend the region's autonomy. Tens of thousands of pro-independence protesters had taken to the streets of Barcelona ahead of the independence declaration to demand the region's secession and the release of two leaders of pro-independence organizations, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sanchez. Independence has divided Catalonia. Many who supported continued unity with Spain refused to vote in the October 1 referendum. The pro-independence crowds outside the Catalan parliament immediately rejoiced after hearing the independence declaration. Many people were draped in the "Estelada" flag associated with Catalan independence. Some reportedly called for the Spanish flag to be removed from the Catalan government palace as regional lawmakers arrived from the parliament. (Author: Alexander Pearson) Author: Alexander Pearson "The Spanish government has taken this decision because it is the best for Catalonia and for Spain," said Sanchez, noting a desire to "re-establish coexistence and harmony within Catalan society and Spanish society as a whole." Nevertheless, it seems neither separatist Catalans were satisfied — saying the move did not go far enough and renewing calls for another independence referendum — nor conservatives in Madrid, who vowed to fight the decision in court. Sanchez addressed opposition to the move in his statement, saying: "Although we understand why some people oppose it, the government has chosen to open a path to reconciliation; to coming back together. We think these pardons open that path and will give all of us the chance to start again." Political opponents accuse Sanchez of playing politics with the nation's justice system because his minority government relies partly on Catalan separatists for support in the national parliament. Although Catalan's new Regional President Pere Aragones called the pardons, "a first step that needs to be followed by negotiations," Elsa Artadi of the hardline Together for Catalonia party dismissed the move, saying, "If he’s got a proposal, let him come to the [Catalan] parliament so we can vote and decide whether it’s a solution or not."  Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qPI5 js/wmr (AFP, Reuters)  