The winner of the Golden Bear for best film, Romanian director Radu Jude for Bad Luck Banging Or Loony Porn, was among the international filmmakers who traveled to Berlin to receive their award at the Berlin International Film Festival's award ceremony held on Sunday. The Silver Bear awards in various categories, along with the Berlinale Documentary Award, the GWFF Best First Feature Award and prizes for films in other sections of the festival, were also handed out on June 13. A few German works were among the Silver Bear winners. Mr. Bachmann and His Class, a documentary by Maria Speth, won the Silver Bear Jury Prize. The festival awarded its first ever gender-neutral acting prize — where both male and female actor compete in the same category — to Maren Eggert for her performance in Maria Schrader's I'm Your Man. Maren Eggert smiles as she holds the Silver Bear recognizing her performance in the German film "I'm Your Man." The Berlin International Film Festival has eliminated its best actor and best actress categories, giving out instead for the first time two other acting awards on a gender-neutral basis, one for the best lead performance and another one for best supporting role. German director Maria Speth spent six years working on her nearly four-hour long documentary, "Mr. Bachmann and His Class," which follows a teacher and his class of multicultural children. Her work was recognized with the Silver Bear Jury Prize; Speth thanked her financial supporters when she picked up the award on June 13. The Golden and Silver Bear prizewinners were able to travel to Berlin to pick up their statues on June 13, but the ceremony took place outside, with different COVID-related security measures still in place. Here the winners pose with their trophies all while keeping a respectable distance from each other. Due to the pandemic, the Berlinale was split into two separate events. The first part, an online version of the festival, was held in March and restricted to film industry professionals as a replacement for the European Film Market. Now, during the Summer Special from June 9-20, many films are celebrating their actual premiere with an outdoor screening. Aliaksei Paluyan's "Courage," a documentary on the Belarus protests, celebrated its Berlin premiere on June 11. Nobel Prize for Literature winner Svetlana Alexievich and lead opposition politician Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya were special guests at the event. The audience was also invited to hold photos of arrested Belarusian opposition members as a sign of solidarity. Dominik Graf's film "Fabian – Going to the Dogs," based on Erich Kästner's classic novel, is set in Weimar-era Berlin, amid an exhilarating nightlife and the looming Nazi takeover of Germany in 1933. While lead actors Saskia Rosendahl and Tom Schilling portray intimate scenes in the film, they played along with the very different rules of conduct of this pandemic year at the premiere on June 10. The first Berlin International Film Festival under Carlo Chatrian's and Mariette Rissenbeek's leadership was in 2020. With the pandemic breaking out right after the event, all established Berlinale traditions had to be revised for 2021. After months of uncertainty, the Summer Special opened on Berlin's Museum Island on June 9. "It is a pleasure," said artistic director Chatrian on the red carpet. Also joining the opening night celebration, Commissioner for Culture and the Media Monika Grütters said she hoped the Berlinale's Summer Special would feel like a "real campfire romance." Cinemas in Germany have been closed since November 2; outdoor screenings have only recently been allowed again. "We'll perhaps enjoy this [festival] like rarely before," said Grütters. The opening film was "The Mauritanian," directed by Kevin Macdonald. Based on the true story of a man who was detained without charge for 14 years in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, the film stars Jodie Foster in the role of internationally recognized criminal defense lawyer Nancy Hollander, who personally introduced the film at the opening event. Different cinema greats from Germany also joined the festival's opening — among them director Volker Schlöndorff ("The Tin Drum"). But Hollywood actors, who usually show up on the red carpet, had to stay away this year. For many years, the Berlin film festival was actually held in the summer. "This of course reminds me of many years back," German actor Iris Berben, born in 1950, told dpa. In the 1970s, Berlinale organizers decided to hold the festival earlier in the year to give it an edge on Cannes. "I remember there was a lot of grumbling when they moved it to the cold season," added Berben at the opening. The Berlinale's central location is a specially created open-air cinema on Berlin's Museum Island, but the screenings of the festival's selection are held at 16 sites spread out throughout the city, such as this one in the courtyard of the Charlottenburg Palace. Along with the beach chairs, the warm weather contributed to the special atmosphere on the first night of the festival. Author: Elizabeth Grenier The event took place outdoors, on Berlin's Museum Island, where the red carpet is being rolled out for the Berlinale Summer Special, which presents 126 films from its selection in open-air cinemas for the public from June 9-20. Normally, the Berlin International Film Festival's awards ceremony is an event filled with suspense for critics and film fans who closely follow the competition, as they hope that their own favorites will be crowned with the Golden Bear, or at least obtain one of the Silver Bears. However, things were different this year. In response to the coronavirus pandemic, the festival's organizers divided the Berlinale into two separate events. The prizewinners were revealed during the first part of the festival in March, an online program restricted to film industry professionals. The announcement was a very low-key event, with the members of the jury reading their statements from separate hotel rooms, and the winners tuning in through a video link to react to the news. The prizes are now being handed out three months later during the second part of the festival, the Berlinale Summer Special. The festival will conclude with the announcement of an additional Berlinale Competition Audience Award on June 20. Romanian director Radu Jude poses on the red carpet with producer Ada Solomon (left) and actress Katia Pascariu (right) The Golden Bear winning film, Bad Luck Banging Or Loony Porn, is a sexually-explicit dark comedy about a school teacher who risks losing her job when a personal sex tape starts circulating online and in her school. The jury said in March that they had picked the film because it "captures on screen the very content and essence, the mind and body, the values and the raw flesh of our present moment in time. Of this very moment of human existence." Set in real-world Bucharest, it was the only competition film set during the COVID-19 pandemic, with all characters wearing masks. The film also comments on the Church, antisemitism and far-right politics. Even though the work found a Russian distributor, Russia's Ministry of Culture announced on June 11 that it would not issue a distribution license for Bad Luck Banging Or Loony Porn, according to reports in Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. The ministry said that the Golden Bear-winning work violates Russian laws on pornography.  