French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday said he was ending France's eight-year operation in the Sahel region of Africa, particularly in Mali, where the country's military has been waging a battle against Islamist insurgents. At a press conference in Paris ahead of tomorrow's G7 Summit, President Macron said the Sahel region has become "the epicenter of international terrorism" in recent years, but said that France could not maintain a "constant" presence there. "We cannot secure certain areas because some states simply refuse to assume their duties. Otherwise, it is an endless task," he said. Macron added that the "long-term presence" of French troops " cannot be substitute" for nation states handling their own affairs. Any role for the French army would be focused on training and equipping African security forces, Macron said, adding that the timeline is still to be finalized. He gave no further details about possible troop reduction numbers. "The time has come: the continuation of our commitment in the Sahel will not be in the same way," Macron told reporters, while calling for a "profound transformation" and a new international force to provide security for the region. France currently has 5,100 soldiers in the Sahel region, which spans half a dozen countries. A flash point is Mali, a former French colony that has seen a second military coup inside nine months. France deployed soldiers to the region in 2013 in a bid to stop jihadists carving out a foothold there. Yet their presence has failed to halt the wave of deadly attacks as the French government has struggled to convince their Western allies to contribute more troops. Germany has 450 troops in Mali on a training mission, and last year, extended the mission to 2021. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3twwS A joint anti-terror force made up of Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger remains plagued by a lack of equipment, funds and training. As many as 50 French soldiers have died during the eight-year mission, prompting calls from some opposition lawmakers to bring it to an end. Macron's announcement could see the issue debated at the forthcoming G7 Summit, as well as meeting of the NATO military alliance in Brussels on Monday. The Sahel is seen by many Western politicians and experts as a major risk because of the growing strength of militants there. It is also seen as a crossroads for arms and people-smuggling. Colonel Assimi Goita has been behind two coup d'etats in Mali, ousting a democratically-elected president last year and the transitional leadership. He was sworn in as interim president before naming his new premier on Monday. Goita has ignored calls from the international community to return power to the country's deposed civilian government. He has pledged earlier to hold elections in February next year, but it is unclear what role he and other military figures will play in governing Mali after that. Two regional blocs, ECOWAS and the African Union, decided last week to suspend Mali both organizations over the junta. Macron had warned last month that could pull back the French military unless civilian rule is restored to the West African nation. Like thousands of other Dogon, Isaie Dignau left the region of Bandiagara in central Mali over the insecurity caused by the ongoing conflict. He found refuge with his family in Nana Kenieba, a village some 150 kilometers (93 miles) south east of the capital Bamako. According to Isaie, Dogon griots had predicted this migration to lands once called "Mande" hundreds of years ago. According to legend, the Dogon are originally from "Mande", the region of the Malinke people. Some time between the 11th and 13th centuries, they were forced to leave amid the Islamization of West Africa. After a long migration they settled around the famous Bandiagara clff in what is today the Mopti region. Now, due to the jihadi threat, they are returning home. The Dan Na Ambassagou hunters are the main Dogon militia in Mopti. The conflict in Mali began in 2012 and in 2016 it spread in the central part of the country. As tensions among ethnic groups rose, self-defence militias were formed. The intercommunal fighting is caused by lack of fertile lands and water in an area affected by jihadism. Mali is facing a serious humanitarian crisis in regions already underdeveloped. Food insecurity affects up to 1.3 million people. Some 347,000 people were forced to flee their lands. Many have sought refuge in neighboring countries but most are internally displaced and sheltering in the south of Mali and refugee camps close to urban areas. Many Dogon are directly involved in the conflict. Seidu Doungo fought with the Dan Na Ambassagou in the Koro region. In 2020, he decided to lay down his weapons. His family was threatened by raiding jihadis and he no longer hand a source of income from their land. When Seidu heard about Nana Kenieba, he decided to leave Koro to find peace in "Mande".. The majority ethnic group in Nana Kenieba is Malinke. Segou Keita is the village chief. He has welcomed Dogon who return in accordance with the ancient prophecy. The community supports them financially and includes them in decision-making. Inside the central hut of Nana Kenieba, Isaie Dignau shows some villagers a map where the plots of land are located. Since 2016, around 400 Dogon families, mainly from Mopti, have settled here. Each household received two hectares of land and food. Dogon is a secular ethnic community, where people are free to profess Islam, Christianty and ancestral belief. The village has two mosques and two churches, with corresponding Koranic schools and catechism classes, a sign of a new-found climate of openness. The peaceful environment of Mande seems far removed from the conflict in Mali. The community lives in fear that the jihadis could arrive and start a conflict. In Nana Kenieba, villagers have organized patrols that keep bandits out for now. Author: Davide Lemmi, Ugo Lucio Borga, Marco Simoncelli jf/wmr (AFP,Reuters)