Vekuii Reinhard Rukoro was born in Otjiwarongo, a farming town in central Namibia — then known as South West Africa — in 1954, a decade before the beginning of the armed struggle to rid Namibia of South Africa's apartheid regime. He attended secondary school in Döbra, then a tiny settlement north of Windhoek before training to be a lawyer, first in Windhoek and then in the United Kingdom, where he earned a Law degree from the University of Warwick in 1983. Rukoro appeared determined to escape the restrictive apartheid rules that hindered Black people in Namibia during the 1970s and '80s. He was also a keen boxer and athlete, playing rugby and football in his younger days. Rukoro joined the South West African National Union (SWANU) in the 1970s, a group that then included many ethnic Herero people. He had spells as secretary-general before becoming the party's president in 1989. SWANU took part in Namibia's UN-supervised first general election as an independent nation under the Namibia National Front umbrella organization, which served the countries smaller parties. Rukoro took up a seat in the Constituent Assembly, where he became one of the leading drafters of Namibia's brand new constitution. When Namibia officially became independent in March 1990, Rukoro became deputy justice minister — a post he held until 1995. Politically, Rukoro switched allegiance to the ruling South West African Peoples' Organisation (SWAPO) in the mid-1990s, and the lawyer served as the country's attorney general until 2000, before pursuing a business career. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1FvrU Rukoro was an influential businessman after his political career went on hold. He was chairman of the former national carrier Air Namibia until 2004, while also holding senior leadership positions at banking institutions Sanlam Namibia and First National Bank Namibia. Rukoro was also CEO of the influential Meat Cooperation of Namibia (Meatco) organization, but his relationship with the company became increasingly strained until he left in 2017. Vekuii Rukoro rose to prominence when he took over the reign of Paramount Chief of the Hereros in 2014. While his position as the leader of the Hereros and the Ovaherero Traditional Authority has been routinely disputed by other Herero clan leaders, Rukoro was known for his demands for justice with regard to the Herero and Nama genocide committed by German colonial forces in the early 1900s. His red and gold embroidered uniform, cane and hat became his trademark. When negotiations between Namibia and Germany commenced in 2015 — with the aim of getting Germany to admit the early 20th century killings amounted to genocide and reach some kind of financial settlement — Rukoro consistently rejected Germany's insistence on dealing bilaterally with the Namibian government instead of the affected ethnic groups, insisting on representation. He demanded Germany pay reparations, and his prominence in Namibia with the Herero community — as well as an international profile — gave him the platform to speak, often bluntly, on the subject. On a visit to Germany in 2016, Rukoro said that a German apology not backed by reparations would be an "insult to the intelligence not only of the Namibians and the descendants of the victim communities but to Africans in general." Vekuii Rukoro of the Ovaherero Traditional Authority lays flowers in memory of the victims of German colonialism at the Garnisons cemetery in Berlin In 2017, Rukoro and other Herero and Nama leaders controversially filed a class-action lawsuit in New York to try to force Germany to pay reparations, an effort which fell short when the court ruled the principle of sovereign immunity made the case against Germany inadmissible. Still, Rukoro used his position as paramount chief to bring attention to the genocide case, remaining a thorn in the side for Germany. Rukoro, along with other traditional leaders, remained critical of the negotiations which came to a head in May 2021, with the German government recognizing colonial-era killings as genocide, asking the descendants for forgiveness, and supplying Namibia with a total of €1.1 billion ($1.3 billion) over the next 30 years. Rukoro called for protests against a planned visit by German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier to officially ask for forgiveness. Rukoro remained a controversial figure through his chieftainship Namibian politicians, including President Hage Geingob, have expressed shock at Rukoro's sudden passing. Despite his critics and the controversies he courted, Rukoro's outspokenness on the Herero and Nama genocide, and his profile as a Herero leader, was a reminder for international observers that the legacy of Namibia's dark colonial past had never been fully dealt with. Almost prophetically, Rukoro appealed to his Herero subjects in May to adhere to public health measures to stop COVID-19, warning families not to attend funerals en masse. While Rukoro himself succumbed to the coronavirus complications, it's hard to imagine Rukoro's own funeral will not be generously attended, if not in actual numbers, certainly in spirit. In 2007 two Germans, theater studies scholar Evelyn Annuss and artist Barbara Loreck, distributed disposable cameras to hundreds of Namibians as an experiment. They requested them to document how they see their country today, 25 years after independence, 25 years after the German colonial era, after occupation and liberation. This picture was taken by Paulus Jacobs, who lives in Lüderitz. "Our main goal was to get shots of what people think is 'Germanness' in Namibia," said Annuss in an interview with DW. "But what happened was something completely different. People were not so much interested in colonial history. Instead they staged their daily lives in front of the camera." Clemensia Haragaes took pictures of the Katutura neighbohood in Windhoek. More than 5,000 photographs were taken as the cameras made their way through Namibia. The photographers were supposed to write their names on the cameras. But authorship was not important to them. "We tried to find out who shot which pictures, but this was often not possible because people just weren't interested." Annuss thinks that the result is an art project in the best sense of the word. To mark the 25th anniversary of Namibia's independence on March 21, the Basler Afrika Bibliographien and the Namibian Embassy in Switzerland are displaying the photos in Basel and Geneva. In 2009 the Windhoek National Gallery put on an exhibition entitled "Staging made in Namibia." This photo taken by Memory Biwa was among the pictures on show. Suddenly the photos of everyday life, many taken spontaneously, acquired an artistic aura: framed and hung in the National Art Gallery of Namibia. "It was extremely important for the photographers to see their work there, as most of them came from former townships or poor areas." This picture was taken by Marama Kavita, from Okakarara,Otjozondjupa. The pictures often recall theater photos or film stills. "People dressed up and acted out certain roles in front of the camera," said Evelyn Annuss. Such pictures differ from the supposedly authentic postcard motifs or scenes of poverty specially arranged to create the maxim effect; pictures of Namibia which are often seen in Germany. Photo: Anke Langmaak: Carnival in Windhoek. A group of Herero women pose in front of igloo-like tents, a girl dresses up as a tourist and stands in front of a picture of a roaring stag, blue-eyed children celebrate carnival in Windhoek; snapshots of everyday life seen from different perspectives. This photo by Marama Kavita is called 'Herero Day in Okahandja.' There were surprising moments, as the photographers "'undermined our view of life in Namibia," said Evelyn Annuss. The result could be summed up as "I show you how you see me," as depicted in this photo by Cesilie Benjamin. The exhibition in Basel and Geneva is accompanied by a catalog. Photo: Cesilie Benjamin, Otjiwarongo. Author: Stefanie Duckstein 