Several years ago, Rolling Stones drummer Charlie Watts told British newspaper The Guardian that he wouldn't mind if his band called it a day — as long as it was "amicably." "I love playing the drums, and I love playing with Mick and Keith and Ronnie," he said. "I don't know about the rest of it. It wouldn't bother me if the Rolling Stones said: 'That's it ... enough.'" After all, the drummer has been playing with the band for nearly six decades and turns 80 on June 2. At some point, you have to think about when you are going to retire. On the other hand, he told The Guardian: "I don't know what I would do if I stopped." Without Charlie Watts as a calming influence among rock 'n' roll's long-serving band, the Rolling Stones would probably no longer exist. Watts' diplomatic tact has often served to bring the hot-tempered, quarrelsome Mick Jagger and Keith Richards to their senses. It is due to his calming influence that the Rolling Stones are still together and ready to hit the road again once the pandemic has subsided, with their 2020 having been postponed. As Richards once said: "There couldn't be a Rolling Stones without Charlie Watts." Charles "Charlie" Robert Watts was born in Kingsbury, now a district of London, in 1941. The son of a truck driver studied art and graphics and joined Alexis Korner's band Blues Incorporated as a drummer. The loose blues collective also included singer Mick Jagger and guitarists Brian Jones and Mick Jagger, who all dropped out of the band to form the Rolling Stones in 1962. Just one year later, Watts quit his job as a graphic artist when Stones guitarist Richards insisted he play drums in the new band. Watts has been keeping metronomic time for the legendary rockers ever since. Charlie Watts (left) with the rest of the Rolling Stones in 1967 With typical understatement, Watts has often been the overlooked man in the background, letting his band mates take center stage. "Charlie Watts gives me the freedom to fly on stage," Keith Richards once said of the taciturn drummer with perfect timing. While most rock stars tend to make headlines for their erratic lifestyles, the drummer has been happily married to Shirley Ann Shepherd since 1964. He overcame his alcohol and drug addictions back in the 1980s and famously dislikes touring. "I hate leaving home," he once said. "I love what I do, but I'd love to go home every night." Today, he and his wife live a secluded life in the country, where Watts breeds Arabian horses. He might be a homebody, but Watts is ready to get back on the road with the band once the pandemic is over Charlie Watts contrasts pretty much every image the Rolling Stones evokes. Rather than wearing jeans, he prefers suits. He loves jazz music, citing it as a major influence on his drumming style — yet exactly the kind of music the Stones rebelled against at the beginning of their career. And he is modest, having said he feels embarrassed when receiving minutes-long standing ovations. Together with the Stones, Watts was inducted into the Rock'n'Roll Hall of Fame in 1989. Rolling Stone magazine also put the time-keeper in twelfth place on its list of the best drummers of all time. Through near six decades with the Rolling Stones, Watts has remained skeptical of fame. In the end, he only wants one thing — to make music. "It's been years and years and years I've been playing the drums, and they're still a challenge, I still enjoy using drumsticks and a snare drum," he once said. Forever a rock 'n' roller? The Rolling Stones are among the world's oldest rock bands. On average, they're now in their late seventies. You may be able to read their age in their faces, but their youthful energy doesn't seem to have diminished — they just about to embark on another a taxing tour, pandemic withstanding. Mick Jagger and Keith Richards met each other at school. In 1962, they founded The Rolling Stones. Also performing at their first concert in London were Tony Chapman (drums), Dick Taylor (bass) and Ian Stewart (piano). Another line-up followed with Brian Jones (second guitar), Bill Wyman (bass) and Charlie Watts (drums), who performed on the first album, The Rolling Stones, in 1964. With their feel-good songs, The Beatles were already achieving world fame in 1964. That's why Andrew Loog Oldham, then manager of the Stones, wanted to create a counter-pole to the Fab Four. They were to become famous as the "bad boys" — though during their first TV performance in the show "Ready Steady Go," they came across as harmless good guys. One year later, on September 11, 1965, the Stones gave their first concert in West Germany — in the rather conservative city of Münster. The police had a hard time keeping their fans under control. Most residents in Münster, however, eyed the Stones with suspicion. They were actually lucky, though. Fans in Berlin demolished a stage during a later concert, which would take seven years to rebuild. During the late 1960s, no other band came to embody the image of the hedonistic rock star more than the Stones. The combination of rock music, free love and drug consumption seemed a constant at the time. Stones guitarist Brian Jones became ill from his drug use, which is why he left the band in June 1969. A short time later, he drowned in his swimming pool under mysterious circumstances. In May 1965, the Stones went on their third tour across the US, playing cover versions of US hits once more. They still hadn't produced enough songs of their own. One night, Keith played a new melody on his guitar, and he loved it so much that he recorded it and had Mick listen to it. It was the hookline of their first worldwide hit: "Satisfaction." The Altamont Free Concert, initiated by the Stones management, was intended as a peaceful counter event to Woodstock. Alongside the Stones on stage were, among others, Santana, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, and Jefferson Airplane. When the Stones appeared, there was a great deal upheaval among the audience and the concert needed to be interrupted. The Hells Angels were behind the commotion. When the Stones started playing "Under my Thumb," a man collapsed in front of the stage after a member of the Hells Angels stabbed him in the back. The band was shocked. Later, they finished the Altamont Free Concert. "If Woodstock was the dream," said British photographer Eamon McCabe later, "then Altamont was the nightmare." This day, December 6,1969, saw the end of the hippie era. Altamont made a dent, but only for a short time. The Rolling Stones continued with their straight rock 'n' roll - a style that made them world famous. And the Stones wouldn't have been the Stones if they had decided to stop giving concerts or going on tours. For 50 years, they've successfully been playing stages around the world. In 2003, pictured here, they performed in Moscow. In 2006, Japanese fans enjoyed a Stones concert in the city of Saitama, north of Tokyo (pictured). Some time later, the Stones performed in the Serbian capital of Belgrade. True fans were the world know where the band's name came from: Apparently, Brian Jones was inspired by the blues hit "Mannish Boy" by Muddy Waters, which contained the line, "I'm a rolling stone." Even at an older age - Mick and Keith are both in their mid-70s now - The Rolling Stones continue to tour around the world, entertaining fans young and old alike. In May 2014, for example, they performed during the Rio Lisboa Music Festival in Lisbon. And, as usual, they gave their very best, much to the joy of their Portuguese fans. In February 2016, the Rolling Stones started their América-Latina-Olé-Tour in Santiago de Chile, giving their final concert at the end of March in Cuba. It was a free event at a sports park in Havana, where the boys did their best to demonstrate how fit they still were. In this picture, the band had just landed at the airport of Havana. The concert DVD "Havana Moon" was released in November 2016. Fortunately for German fans, the band also made a recent stop there. On September 9, 2017 the "No Filter" tour arrived at the port city of Hamburg before heading to two more German venues, Munich's Olympic Stadium on September 12 and the Dusseldorf Arena on October 9. No one knows when - or if - the Stones will play in Germany again, which is why those tickets were highly coveted. With Mick Jagger having turned 75 and Keith Richards also about to make the same landmark later in 2018, there seems to be no stopping for the Rolling Stones. Jagger, by now a great-grandfather, continues to live like a 27-year-old, touring, recording and having a great time while being the rock legend he is. May the Stones rock and roll forever more! Author: Silke Wünsch (ad, ss) This article has been translated from German.