Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador's leftist National Regeneration Movement (Morena) is poised to keep its majority in Congress, according to Sunday's preliminary results. The vote for a new lower house of Congress, state governors and local legislators was seen as a referendum on Lopez Obrador's reform agenda. Mexicans cast their ballots for over 20,000 positions. Up for grabs were all 500 seats of the lower house of parliament, 15 of Mexico's 31 governorships, almost 2,000 mayorships and about 14,000 seats on local councils. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3uSSY According to Mexico's National Electoral Institute (INE), which counted around 50% of the votes, Morena was in the lead with 34.3%. This would translate to between 190 and 203 seats. It had previously held a simple majority of 253. It means Morena will now have to rely on its allies the Workers Party and Green Party. Together, they are set for between 265 and 292 seats. The ruling coalition had enjoyed a two-thirds supermajority in the lower house of Congress, which could enable Lopez Obrador to amend the constitution without negotiating with his opponents. Mexico's main opposition alliance of the center-right PRI, PAN and the left-wing PRD were weakened after Lopez Obrador's 2018 landslide victory. They are now projected to secure between 181 and 213 seats. This election cycle has seen record criminal violence. At least 89 politicians, including 35 candidates, and dozens of their relatives and associates have been killed, according to figures from the consulting firm Etellekt. Alma Barragan was killed on May 25 while campaigning for the mayorship of the city of Moroleon Gunmen ambushed and killed five people helping to organize elections in the southern state of Chiapas, AFP news agency reported, citing prosecutors. In another instance, according to Reuters news agency, a man threw a severed head at a voting station in the border city Tijuana. Sunday's vote was viewed as critical to Lopez Obrador pushing through reforms under his "Fourth Transformation" plan. The future of the left-wing populist's agenda hinges on whether voters punish him for issues such as his handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Mexico has been one of the countries worst affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3si25 The country's economy also plunged by 8.5% in 2020, the worst slump in decades. Nonetheless, Lopez Obrador has enjoyed approval ratings of around 60%. Much of his popularity is thanks to his social welfare programs, but critics accuse him of a tilt toward authoritarianism with attacks on the judiciary and the National Electoral Institute. fb/rt (AFP, dpa, Reuters) 