Without a doubt, an extraordinary exhibition has opened in Berlin. And it is an exhibition of superlatives: around 90 artists from 34 countries, showing some 400 works and exhibited in three huge hangars at Berlin's TempelhofAirport. Famous artists such as Gerhard Richter, Anselm Kiefer and Georg Baselitz are represented, as are Sejla Kameric, Gilbert & George, Olafur Eliasson, Monica Bonvicini, Katharina Sieverding and Boris Mikhailov. With the cost ranging in the millions of euros, the "Diversity United" exhibition tackles a major subject: Europe. At the same time, it is an exhibition with the political goal of taking stock of the present. The curators have said they are searching "for the essence of the complex, fragile and changing project" that constitutes Europe. Jürgen Grossmann, chairman of the exhibition project advisory board, stressed during the opening that the show impressively demonstrates how Europe is "far more than the sum of political and economic interests." And what better way to convey that than through an exhibition focusing on diversity and a variety of perspectives? "There is no better means to combat nationalism and populism in this day and age," said Grossmann. Those are no empty words typical of a speech given at an opening, however. To understand that, we must take a look at recent developments. An attempt at coming together: Anri Sala's installation, two hands keep moving toward and away from each other "Diversity United" was conceived as a European project. Not only were artists from a wide variety of countries to be represented in the exhibition spaces and together reflect "the artistic face of Europe," as the show is subtitled. In addition, the exhibition itself was to travel throughout geographical Europe. Initially, the opening was planned for November 2020 in Moscow. Then, it was postponed to 2021 and to open in Berlin due to the COVID pandemic. After the opening in Berlin, the exhibition was to travel on to Moscow and then to Paris. The German Federal Foreign Office provided financial support for the exhibition. Initially, Russian participation was clear: Moscow's Tretyakov Gallery was to collaborate with the Bonn-based association Foundation for Art and Culture as the main organizers. The gallery continues to be named as a cooperation partner, along with the Petersburg Dialogue forum, which was initiated in 2001 by then German chancellor Gerhard Schröder and Russian President Vladimir Putin as a bilateral forum to bring together civil society groups, think tanks and decision-makers to maintain dialogue. Furthermore, President Putin was initially supposed to be a patron of the exhibition, along with German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and French President Emmanuel Macron. It was supposed to be displayed in Moscow: a sculpture by Kris Lemsalu German organizers were thus shocked when they heard that Putin's state apparatus had effectively banned elements of the Petersburg Dialogue: Collaboration among the banned associations could result in prison sentences. Walter Smerling, chairman of the Bonn Foundation for Art and Culture and a central figure in the organization of the exhibition, told German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung that this step by the Russian government was unacceptable and that they could not imagine presenting the exhibition in Russia under such conditions. Unwittingly, the "Diversity United" exhibition has therefore become an object of political differences and conflict that is at odds with the title of the show itself. And this is heightened through the lack of contact in exhibition spaces. People on the sidelines of the June 8 exhibition opening cautioned against the show being "taken hostage." At the opening, German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier reacted in a decidedly statesmanlike manner. He praised the diversity of the themes depicted and interpreted as an "expression of the self-confidence of art and artists in Europe" who work "consciously beyond borders." It poses a statement that cannot be considered apolitical, given the backdrop of a cancellation of the show in Moscow. The question of state intervention in civil society platforms such as the Petersburg Dialogue, however, also points to the important role that art can play — even more so in times of political crisis: It can create spaces of interaction in which ambivalences are not only tolerated, but even understood. Israeli artist Yael Bartana's anticipated work: "Crisis - Crysis - Crycis" Incidentally, the "Diversity United" exhibition could not have been opened at a better venue to reflect historical progress. During the Nazi era, prisoners of war became forced laborers for the "Luftwaffe" at Tempelhof Airport. Later, the American and British so-called "raisin bombers" landed and took off here, supplying residents with food and other essential goods for survival during the Soviet blockade of West Berlin in 1948/49. The airport has been closed since 2008, with various initiatives aiming to transform it into a meeting place. Due to its varied historical nature, perhaps it is precisely the right meeting place for an exhibition that addresses Europe in many of its facets, including memory and conflict, power and equality, borders and boundaries, and insights and perspectives. Visible from afar, an American C-47 floats in front of the façade of the Deutsches Technikmuseum in Kreuzberg. It has become a symbol for a dramatic chapter of Berlin's history and an unprecedented aid campaign: for 14 months, West Berlin was supplied from the air by the Western Allies after the Soviets had erected the Berlin blockade in June 1948. After the Second World War, the four victorious powers divided Germany into occupation zones. Berlin, which lay like an island in the Soviet zone, was also divided into four parts. On June 24, 1948, the Soviets blocked all land and water routes to West Germany, and the power supply was also cut off. The Western Allies responded immediately. US military governor Lucius D. Clay gave the order to create the Berlin Airlift on June 25, 1948. One day later, the first transporter landed at Tempelhof. The airport in the American sector became the most important hub of the airlift. Today there are guided tours through the disused airport, which became a legend during the Berlin blockade. For 14 months, 2.2 million West Berliners were supplied from the air. The Allies developed a sophisticated system: three air corridors functioned as one-way streets, two for outward and one for return flights. Close to each other, up to five airplanes had room one above the other! Within 14 months, the airport welcomed a total of 278,000 landings and 2.3 million tons of freight. The second most important airport during the Berlin blockade was in Gatow, in the British sector. The British handled 42 percent of the Airlift landings here: Liquid fuel and supplies for the West Berliners were flown in, sick people and children were flown out. Today, the hangars contain an exhibition on military aviation in Germany. Most tourists to Berlin today arrive in the German capital via Tegel Airport. Most don't know that this airport is also closely connected to the Airlift. Tegel was given its present shape with the hexagonal main terminal in the 1970s, but the foundation stone was laid in 1948. Tegel Airport was the French contribution to the Airlift. In the autumn of 1948, the French Allies built what was then the longest runway in Europe, covering 2.5 km (1.5 miles), in just three months. They were supported by 19,000 Berliners, half of them women. Berlin's third airlift airport went into operation on November 5, 1948. The Berliners simply called the Allied transport aircraft "raisin bombers" or "candy bombers." Before landing, the US pilots dropped small aid packages on homemade parachutes to make the waiting children happy. The packages usually contained chocolate, chewing gum and sometimes raisins. Visitors to the Allied Museum in the Dahlem district, which belonged to the American sector, learn a lot about the history of the airlift and life in Berlin during the Cold War. The exhibition also shows how former enemies, after initial mistrust, became allies during the airlift. Canned food, dried fruit, milk powder, and coffee: Today the care packages are on display in the museum. At the time, they were a lifesaver for many Berliners. Private US aid organization Care chartered its own planes, which brought up to 1,000 care packages to the city every day. The contents, worth $15 (13 euro), fed a family for a month. Even the first trees for the reforestation of the Tiergarten park and zoo were flown in via the airlift. After the winter of 1948, the park in the city center was almost bare, as the Berliners had processed the trees into firewood. On March 17, 1949 the reforestation began. "...look upon this city!" In his speech in front of the destroyed Reichstag parliament building on September 9, 1948, Berlin's Mayor Ernst Reuter called on the world not to surrender the city to the Soviet Union. At the same time, he pleaded with the people of Berlin to persevere. On May 12, 1949, after 322 days, the Soviets abandoned the blockade of West Berlin. 78 pilots crashed during the airlift. This monument near the former Tempelhof Airport commemorates them since 1951. Officially called the Airlift Monument, Berliners have nicknamed it the "Hunger Claw." The three pillars actually symbolize the three air corridors. Copies of the monument are in Frankfurt am Main and Celle, which are the West German cities from which the planes took off for Berlin. The Berlin Airlift ended on May 12, 1949: the blockade of the Soviets had failed, the supply flights could be stopped. One year later, the Americans gave West Berlin the Freedom Bell. It was inaugurated by the "Father of the Airlift," General Lucius D. Clay. To this day, it rings daily at 12 noon and commemorates the spectacular rescue operation from the air. Author: Frederike Müller This article was adapted from German.