Leftist candidate Pedro Castillo was slightly ahead of right-wing candidate Keiko Fujimori in Peru's presidential runoff, according to an Ipsos exit poll released on Sunday evening. Less than half a percentage point stood between the two candidates, with Castillo on 50.2% and Fujimori with 49.8% of votes according to an Ipsos exit poll released three hours after voting finished at 7:00 p.m. (0000 UTC). The razor-thin result, with a 1% margin of error, reversed the polling organization's earlier count that had placed Fujimori slightly in the lead, although with a 3% margin of error. Ipsos — whose exit poll does not include overseas voters — described the results as "still a statistical draw," adding that the results could change again. Official results published by the country's electoral body ONPE showed Keiko Fujimori picking up a slight majority of votes — 50.4% over Castillo's 49.6%. Some 88.2% of ballots have been counted, the majority of which came from urban polling centers where Fujimori has an advantage over her opponent. Experts have warned it could take days to reach a final count. Castillo responded to the first exit poll by calling on his supporters to "defend every vote" in a message on Twitter. "I call on the Peruvian people from all corners of the country to peacefully take to the streets and vigilantly defend democracy," the candidate added. Protests turned to scenes of joy, however, when the revised exit poll results were released. Both candidates have said they will respect the official results. DW's South America correspondent Johan Ramierz reported that large crowds were celebrating outside both Pedro Castillos's and Keiko Fujimori's campaign headquarters. Left-wing candidate Castillo, 51, was a schoolteacher who entered politics by leading a national teachers' strike in 2017. Castillo is seeking to rewrite the constitution that was approved under the leadership of Fujimori's father so that "human rights have to be a priority" and "to end all inequalities." Critics have slammed him as a "communist" on various social media platforms, and labeled him as a sympathizer of the militant insurgency group the Shining Path. Castillo has repeatedly denied any ties to the group. Voters across Peru, where voting is mandatory, had to make a choice between polar opposites. Fujimori, 46, is the candidate of the right-wing Popular Force party. The conservative former congresswoman was the runner-up in the 2011 and 2016 presidential election run-offs. Her father, who governed between 1990 and 2000, is serving a 25-year sentence for corruption and human rights abuses and remains a divisive figure in Peruvian politics. Fujimori has promised various bonuses to people, including a $2,500 (€2,055) one-time payment to each family with at least one COVID-19 victim. She has also proposed distributing 40% of a tax for the extraction of minerals, oil or gas for families who live near those areas. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3uJE3 ab, fb/sri (AFP, Reuters, EFE)  