The opening scenes of "Jole Dobe Na" — Bengali for "Those Who Do Not Drown" —  are apocalyptic. The camera moves slowly, visually documenting parts of an abandoned building, its doors and walls stripped of paint, until it reaches a large window that overlooks the courtyard. A man's voice says, "What if I told you, all this never happened. We are fine and we will be fine. [That] The whole catastrophe was a dream after all? They promised, science could do everything, cure the sick, bring Lazarus back to life…" Having lived most of the last year under COVID-induced lockdowns, these words seem to reflect our inability to grasp the "new normal" consisting of social distancing and isolation, and our collective vulnerability as humans. But "Jole" is not about the pandemic. Its actors managed to finish filming the movie shortly before the lockdown began and COVID-19 did not really influence the movie's storyline. But in the current global context, the story raises a couple of important questions: how does one reconcile intimacy and the fear of infection, and more importantly, what happens to the caregivers of sick people who die? A serious diagnosis clashes with intimacy in "Jole" Directed by Bangladeshi-British director Naeem Mohaiemen, the South Asian film is part of the Berlinale's Forum Expanded Exhibition this year. The movie was made following a prompt by the New Delhi-based artists group, Raqs Media Collective, on the modes of care and what happens to caregivers The film has been made with the support of the Yokohama Triennale 2020, Japan and the contemporary art museum, Bildmuseet in Umea, Sweden. Set in Kolkata, "Jole" focuses around a married couple, Jyoti and Sufiya, and explores how the husband must face the consequences of caring for and losing his wife after a deadly disease. "In this film, the location, a dilapidated, empty hospital, becomes a protagonist of sorts... [It symbolizes] a ghost of the past, imprisoned in the present," actress Kheya Chattopadhyay, who plays the role of the wife, Sufiya, in the film tells DW via email. The film alternates between clips of the couple taking the lift to go upstairs to sit on a bench in front of the doctor's office and conversations that seem stilted at certain times, while being comfortably intimate at others. Then there is also a hint of political tension that makes an appearance in the couple's discussions at the hospital. Definitely not safe for work: Its opening scene is a homemade sex tape. But for Radu Jude, finding this material more obscene than society's racism, anti-Semitism and nationalism is what's perverse. The Romanian director had won a Silver Bear in 2015 with "Aferim"; this film is for those who enjoy transgressive experiments — like the jury, who praised the way it captures the pandemic's zeitgeist. Japanese director Ryusuke Hamaguchi's film is built in three episodes centering on female characters. A coincidental love triangle, an unsuccessful seduction trap, and an encounter emerging from a mix-up: The short stories mirror each other, and the work shines through its exquisitely slick mise en scène. Maria Speth's documentary is nearly four hours long, but the half-day class is a captivating learning experience. In a multicultural German town, the 64-year-old teacher Dieter Bachmann leads a group of children with roots in 12 countries. "Mr Bachmann and His Class" is a hopeful take on how education can change everything in the thorny concept of integration. Hungarian filmmaker Denes Nagy explores the human soul through this slow-paced World War II drama set in 1943. Instead of being driven by the action of the conflict, the film focuses on the moral dilemma of a Hungarian soldier, allied with Nazi Germany, who is reluctantly called to take command of his company following an ambush. The police force is one of the most controversial institutions in Mexico. Director Alonso Ruizpalacios explores what it means to be a cop in Mexico City in this Netflix production. Combining documentary and role-playing scenes, this is definitely not your typical "cop movie." The Berlinale jury recognized Yibran Asuad's exceptional editing work in this film. Director Maria Schrader, renowned for the series "Unorthodox," explores how a rational woman (Maren Eggert) deals with a three-week experiment in which she lives with a humanoid robot programmed to be her perfect romantic partner (Dan Stevens). While most critics praised Stevens for perfectly impersonating an AI man, the jury was most impressed by Eggert's subtle performance. "Forest – I See You Everywhere" by Hungarian director Bence Fliegauf is composed of a series of vignettes. The first one centers on a girl who confronts her father, accusing him of being responsible for her mother's death. The members of the jury were enchanted by Lilla Kizlinger's performance, which they found "especially strong and memorable." Even though story of "Introduction" is relatively simple, the jury was charmed by its efficient storytelling, through which "a hidden truth of human life is suddenly revealed, bright and lucid." Revered South Korean director Hong Sangsoo shot a part of his black-and-white 66 minute film in Berlin. Author: Elizabeth Grenier At one instance Sufiya complains about her name being misspelt as "Sophia," a mistake that happens because people are more welcoming towards western names than Muslim ones, she says. In another scene, her husband reads aloud from Bangladeshi writer Syed Mujtaba Ali's short stories about immigration officials at the border between the newly-divided India and East Pakistan — today's Bangladesh. His discomfort with his past home — Dhaka — is reflected in his reading. "The wound of the partition in 1947 will remain forever, even if you are born after it," explains Sagnik Mukherjee, who plays the role of Jyoti in the film. He refers to the partition of British India and the creation of India and Pakistan in 1947 for primarily religious reasons. The partition led to communal violence, massive casualties and migration. Muslims headed to Pakistan, while Hindus and Sikhs there made their way to India. Jyoti's "vulnerability" is visible when he talks about Bangladesh, the actor adds. The loss of his motherland — in the form of Dhaka in Bangladesh — is juxtaposed against the imminent loss of his wife. Jyoti remembers his time with his wife in the hospital While these little incidents make up Jyoti's memories of Sufiya, as experiences they also served as deviations from the boredom of waiting at a hospital and waiting to be cured. But the disease is the one that dominates. Every now and then, a break arrives in the form of a jarring clip showing what look like microbes on an x-ray of a human organ and a doctor speaking in a strong American accent — perhaps to denote modern medicine and the patient's inability to grasp a difficult diagnosis. At other times, a blinking red light travels around the dilapidated structure, reminding the viewer of the illness that has not really receded to the background. Sufiya appears on a patient's stretcher, or wearing an oxygen mask, asking questions about her blood test and sometimes desperately longing for a cigarette to overcome the boredom of illness. Ultimately, however, the disease consumes its victim: the film ends with Jyoti combing Sufiya's hair as she lies on an operating table. He must deal with the loss.