German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced on Wednesday evening a plan to relax COVID-19 restrictions, including conditions to reopen businesses. Merkel made the announcement following a meeting with the 16 state premiers on Wednesday that lasted more than nine hours. The federal government announced that the lockdown has been extended until at least March 28. At least one free rapid test per week will be available for all residents of Germany starting March 8 An independent expert committee is set to recommend lifting the restriction on the AsrtaZeneca vaccine, which was initially limited to people under 65  Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3q8Ay Step one: Schools, daycare, and hairdressers reopen. This step already took place on Monday, March 1. Step two, starting March 8: Bookstores and florists can reopen with the condition of one customer per 10 square meters. Contact-based professions, such as massage practices, are also allowed to reopen with a negative test result. Step three, starting March 8 at the earliest: If the recorded cases are less than 50 per 100,000 people, public spaces such asmuseums, zoos and gardens can reopen, as well as retail businesses with at least 10 square meters of space per customer. Up to 10 people can play non-contact outdoor sports. If the incidence rate is between 50 to 100, access to spaces such as museums and retail businesses would be on a pre-booking basis, with at least 40 square meters per customer in shops. A maximum of five people, from no more than two households, could then play non-contact outdoor sports. Step four, starting March 22 at the earliest: If the rate remains under 50, outdoor dining, theaters, concert venues, cinemas and opera houses can reopen. People could then practice non-contact sports indoors and contact sports outdoors. If the infection rate is between 50 to 100, outdoor dining would only be allowed on a pre-booking basis. Step five, starting April 5 at the earliest: If the infection rate remains under 50, up to 50 people can gather for outdoor recreational events, and sports restrictions will be lifted. If the infection rate is between 50 to 100, shops can reopen with at least 10 square meters per customer. Outdoor non-contact sports and indoor contact-based exercises are allowed. Germany's top officials said after Wednesday's negotiations that some 200,000 vaccinations are currently administrated daily. General practitioners and specialist doctors' vaccination will begin in late March or early April as Germany receives more doses. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pshU Merkel also said that Germany's Standing Committee on Vaccination was likely to reverse a previous decision that bans the use of AstraZeneca jab for people over 65. Health Minister Jens Spahn said Germany would speed up the vaccination process in the next few days after the committee's decision on the AstraZeneca jab. Merkel also said rapid testing showed "with good accuracy whether someone is infectious on a daily basis." The rapid tests are set to be accessible and free of charge starting March 8. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lM0M The federal government said that starting March 8, people from two households will be allowed to gather in groups of up to five people; children under the age of 14 are not included in that count and can take the true figure beyond five. If the regional incidence remains below 35, up to 10 people from three households could then gather. However, the government still encouraged people to maintain a "social bubble" and limit interactions as much as possible. Most stores have been closed since December 16. Restaurants, bars, sports and leisure facilities have been closed since November 2. Germany moved ahead with the first reopening steps this week. On Monday, hairdressers opened after two-and-a-half months. The same day, some German states also allowed businesses such as florists and hardware stores to open. fb/aw (AP, dpa, Reuters)  