An international team of scientists has found a correlation between high levels of airborne pollen and COVID-19 infection rates, according to a study published in the US scientific journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS). "When we have pollen counts higher than 250 pollen grains per cubic meter of air over several days, that is a large pollen peak," Stefanie Gilles, a study co-author from the Technical University of Munich, said at a press conference, and this could affect infection rates. The scientists found this was the case for people with or without pollen allergies. While the scientists observed that COVID-19 infection rates increased when pollen levels were higher, they do not yet know if high levels of pollen alone cause increased COVID-19 infection risk. Health professionals have responded to the study, saying many factors can influence infection rates. The Ärzteverband Deutscher Allergologen (AeDA), a medical association of German allergists, said in a press release that although the study used the best data available, exact correlations between cause and effect can never be clarified in such an epidemiological study. "The study says that environmental factors, including pollen, may be responsible for part of the change in infection numbers in spring 2020," Karl-Christian Bergmann, an AeDA member and allergist at the Charité University Hospital in Berlin, told DW, quoting the study authors' fact check. "From that, you can already see how cautious the formulation is here." From January to April 8, 2020, the international research team collected data from 130 pollen stations in 31 countries. They then compared this pollen data with weather data and the number of infections from around the start of March to early April, when the first coronavirus wave first hit Europe and the United States. Factors like population density and lockdowns were considered in the study. Of the 31 countries involved in the study, the majority of which were in Europe, 14 were found to have a positive and significant association between high pollen levels and COVID-19 infections. Seven countries didn't have enough pollen to be studied for the pollen effect. The pollen effect alone could increase the rate of COVID-19 infections by up to 20%, and this increased to 44% when combined with other environmental factors like temperature and humidity, Gilles said. Lockdown was found to halve infection rates under similar pollen levels, according to the study, but this is also influenced by other factors, such as people having less contact during this time. Without lockdown, an increase of 100 pollen per cubic meter correlated with a 4% average increase of infection rates, according to the study. "We show by this study that not only personal risk factors are important but also environmental factors have to be taken into consideration," said Traidl-Hoffmann. Pollen alone is not able to cause a COVD-19 infection, Traidl-Hoffmann stressed, "but airborne pollen can pave the way for viral infections." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oppj If you go outside on a high pollen day you are at an increased risk for the following three days, said Claudia Traidl-Hoffmann, director of the Institute for Environmental Medicine at Helmholtz Zentrum in Munich. Gilles said that previous research had shown that the interferon response, a part of the immune response,  can generally be weaker in people with allergies and asthma compared to healthy individuals, but there is no direct evidence that COVID-19 is more frequent in people with these health conditions, especially during the pollen season. During the high-pollen season, people in COVID-19 risk groups should keep themselves informed about pollen levels, adapt their outdoor activities and wear particle filtering masks, the scientists said. But the Charité's Bergmann said that until more research and clearer results were available, there was no justification for additional protective measures. "Everyone can continue to go outside and can run, can go for a walk, whether allergy sufferers or not. Nobody has to stay inside now," he said. The scientists hypothesize that when the coronavirus particles enter the body with pollen grains, the pollen interferes with the body’s immune response, allowing the virus to replicate more easily. This line of thought follows a study co-authored by Gilles in 2020, which found that when there was a lot of pollen in the air and it was breathed in, it weakened the airways’ immune response to respiratory viruses that cause the common cold, such as rhinoviruses. When these viruses are breathed in, a cell infected with the virus will send out signaling proteins called interferons, which tell other nearby cells to put up their defense mechanisms. But if pollen grains are present when the virus particles enter the body, the pollen releases substances that directly interfere with the interferon immune response of the cells, allowing the virus to replicate more freely and spread to neighboring cells, said Gilles. The scientists are planning to do a similar study for SARS-CoV-2 to determine whether the same weakening of the immune system occurs when pollen is present with the coronavirus. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2fAAh While the scientists do not exactly know which of the pollen’s substances is responsible for weakening the immune system, it is different to ones that cause allergies, said Gilles. This means medication like antihistamines would likely not be recommended to counter the pollen's effect on the immune response. "To speculate, I would say antihistamines and allergies, that's a different story," said Gilles. "It doesn’t have [anything] to do with COVID-19 and with the interferon response, at least based on our current knowledge." The scientists' end goal is to develop a smartphone application that would alert people when there is pollen in the air that might affect them. A bee, packed with pollen, prepares to buzz into a blooming sunflower in a field in Frankfurt (Oder), Germany. Pollinators are animals that move pollen from the male anther of a flower to the female stigma of a flower, helping to fertilize it. The most widely recognized pollinators are the various species of bees, although many other insects and animals, including some bats and birds, pollinate. Little islands of pollen cover a car roof in Stuttgart, Germany. The pollen count for the coniferous spruce tree has been very high recently. "This year, there were ideal flight conditions," said Christina Endler of the German Weather Service. "It was dry, there was a lot of sunshine and light wind." Adding to the bounty is the fact that a cold winter was followed by an unusually warm spring. Every walnut tree has both male and female parts, meaning they are monoecious, to use the biological term. Not dependent on pollinators, the pollen is largely spread by wind, from the male to the female parts. All walnut varieties are self-fertile, meaning the pollen can, in theory, travel from the male to the female parts of the same tree. Cross pollination has a higher chance of success though. What looks like yellow fog here is in fact pollen from coniferous forests being blown around the Niedersonthofener Lake, in Bavaria, Germany. As a general rule, meteorologists say that the warmer the winter is, the sooner the pollen season begins. Also, according to a study by allergist Leonard Bielory, pollen counts could double by the year 2040 due to climate change. Chestnut trees (pictured here) produce both welcome shade in summer and the well-known nuts, most commonly associated with roasting on open fires in the depths of winter. These deciduous trees cannot self-pollinate. They rely on wind and insects to move the pollen from one tree to the next. The spread of pollen in the springtime can be quite a sight. The expression "the forest is blooming" refers to the phenomenon of the pollen of conifers, usually spruce trees (those typically found in many German forests), filling the air to the extent that visibility is affected. Your best chance of experiencing this phenomenon is when the weather is especially dry. Think you get a lot done in a day? It is commonly estimated that a single honey bee can land on 5,000 flowers in one day. Pollen sticks to them as they do so and it is then brought to other flowers, allowing fertilization to occur. Are they nature's greatest matchmakers? Maybe, but if they are it is inadvertent; pollinators are usually looking for something for themselves, such as nectar. When rough winds do shake the darling buds - and pollen - of May, hayfever sufferers know all about it. Allergic rhinitis is the medical name for hayfever, and it occurs when a person's immune system overreacts to the presence of pollen and attacks it mistakenly, as if it were a parasite. As a result, the person sneezes, in a misguided attempt to "expel" something that is actually quite harmless. German observers will have noticed masses of yellow pollen accumulating in recent days and weeks, with much of it coming from pine and spruce trees. The high volume has been even greater as a result of the particularly dry spell of recent weather. In this picture, taken in North Rhine-Westphalia, western Germany, pollen residue is seen on the street. We all like to see a nice blooming corn field like the one pictured here, but we ought to be prepared for increasing amounts of pollen as the planet continues to heat up. According to the aforementioned Bielory study, in the year 2000, pollen counts (measurement of the number of grains of pollen in a cubic meter of air) averaged 8,455. By 2040, these counts are anticipated to reach 21,735. Author: Arthur Sullivan