"It is a great pleasure for me to announce Samantha's coming space mission,” said Josef Aschbacher, the new director general of the European Space Agency (ESA), as he opened a press conference on March 3, 2021. The ESA astronaut Samantha Cristoforetti is scheduled to go back to the International Space Station (ISS) for her second stay in the spring of 2022, following her two colleagues Thomas Pesquet and Matthias Maurer, who will set off for the ISS in April and October 2021 respectively. Cristoforetti herself is delighted.  "Not surprisingly, it was a feeling of extreme joy and gratefulness for this opportunity. As I've mentioned before, I had the amazing opportunity the past few years to grow as an astronaut. But we have this tendency of wanting to go back to space as soon as possible," she admits. For Cristoforetti, it will be a return to her "home away from home," as she likes to call the ISS. The Italian astronaut has indeed already spent a remarkable amount of time there: From fall 2014 to spring 2015, she was at the station for 200 days working as flight engineer for the mission "Futura," the second-longest period spent in space by an ESA astronaut. Her colleague and astronaut classmate Luca Parmitano is the only one to have topped that record — by just a single day. The world record for the longest single spaceflight is held the Russian cosmonaut Valeri Polyakov with 437 days. But his compatriot Gennady Padalka has spent more time in space overall than anyone else, totting up a record total of 878 days when all his five missions are combined. During her first stay at the ISS, Samantha Cristoforetti conducted many experiments, most of them related to biology and genetics. In one of them, she looked at how mammalian immune cells reacted to different levels of microgravity. The data drawn from this experiment showed that it takes only a few seconds for these cells to adapt to weightlessness. But one experiment in particular caught people's attention during her stay: Samantha was able to come up with the first freshly brewed espresso on the ISS. This time round, many things will be different both on the ISS itself and with regard to the manner of getting to it. "The positive side of having waited all these years is that the mission will have some different aspects to it. So it's kind of exciting to fly a new spaceship," Cristoforetti says, referring to the new commercial spacecraft from the US that will replace the Russian Soyuz spacecraft for the three next ESA missions to the ISS. It still has to be decided which spacecraft will take Cristoforetti: Space-X's Dragon or Boeing's Starliner. The exact date for her flight has also not been confirmed yet. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lPBz "The space station has been undergoing this midlife upgrade for some time. New hardware up there, new operations, a lot more interesting experiments," Cristoforetti says. One thing she is particularly looking forward to is a new piece of equipment already waiting on board the ISS to go into operation in the space laboratory "Columbus": a 3D printer to print metal in space. ESA's astronaut class from 2009: Cristoforetti and her colleague Pesquet (on her right) will fly to the ISS in 2022 and 2021 And the ISS has its own space balcony now: "Bartolomeo," a platform newly installed outside the Columbus module that will allow private companies to carry out experiments under space conditions. Although Cristoforetti has spent the past few years back with her feet on solid ground, her gaze has been set on goals even further away than the ISS, as preparations rev up to put people on the moon once more. "It's been exciting years since I came back. I am very grateful actually that I had the chance of growing professionally and to give something back from my experience as an astronaut," she says. For example, she has headed ESA's Spaceship EAC initiative, where she has mentored students tackling the technological challenges involved in moon missions. The plan is for such missions to be launched not from Earth, but from the Lunar Orbital Platform-Gateway, a space station orbiting the moon. It is projected to be built within the next nine years. As an experienced astronaut, Cristoforetti knows exactly what a person needs to feel at home in space. For this reason, she was selected to be the crew representative for the future residents of this lunar station. "I was able to give my contribution from the perspective of an astronaut. And I am especially excited about that because Italy is leading the designing and manufacturing of these modules for ESA," she says, referring to the I-Hab modules that will be the main living quarters for future astronauts at the Gateway. This artist's impression shows the planned I-Hab module for astronauts working at the Lunar Gateway Who these astronauts may be has been a mystery since 2009, when the last official class of astronauts, to which Cristoforetti belonged, was chosen by ESA. But that is about to change now: From March 2021 until April 2021, ESA is officially again taking applications from aspiring astronauts. "Samantha and her colleagues are highly qualified and very young and there is no intention to not have them in space anymore," ESA Director General Josef Aschbacher said. "But, of course, we need to renew our astronaut class and eventually send astronauts beyond the ISS toward the moon. And eventually, in the next decade, even further, to Mars." There are three places already reserved for European astronauts to fly to the Lunar Gateway within this decade. For now, Cristoforetti is returning to the ISS, where she will most likely stay for the usual six-month stint. Does she have any more premieres in mind on the lines of that first espresso in space? "I don't know, I have a few ideas. But that would be a little bit early to give it away," she says. In the 1970s, the Soviet Union decided to build the first permanently inhabited space station. For Moscow, this meant winning back ground that was lost in the space race with the US. From 1986 on, Mir circled the Earth for 15 years. On January 5, 2001, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov signed the order to let the space station drop into the Pacific. After the end of the Cold War, the future belonged to the International Space Station (ISS). But cross-country collaboration in space had its start on the Mir. The first western astronaut to visit was the French Jean-Loup Chretien in 1988. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, even US Space shuttles like Atlantis (pictured here) began traveling to the station. Four Germans spent time on Mir as well. More than 100 astronauts and cosmonauts from all over the world spent time on the Soviet space station. One of the Germans was the astronaut Reinhold Ewald (above, top row, second from the right). A Soyuz space ship took him to the Mir in 1997. A fire broke out during his stay, but fortunately the crew managed to put it out quickly. The crews on space station Mir had to cope with numerous technical failures and accidents. Once, liquids came out of a cooling system. Another time the board computer suffered a black out. A progress supply ship even crashed into the solar panels. Ewald took the accidents with an astronaut's spirit: "A space station is not a business lounge with cozy armchairs," he once said. The US, which contributed to maintaining the space station after the collapse of the Soviet Union, pushed for a new International Space Station (ISS). Construction of the successor started in 1998. At the same time, Mir was gradually taken apart. After 15 years in orbit and 86,000 flights around the globe, the project came to an end. Mir was a milestone in human space travel and international cooperation in space. "Without the experience of Mir, we would still be just at the beginning," German astronaut Thomas Reiter said. In March 2001, the last fragments of the space station burned up in the atmosphere above the South Pacific, the last intact pieces crashing into the ocean. Author: Nicolas Martin (fs, ccb)   