Canadian health officials announced Monday they would stop offering the AstraZeneca vaccine to people under the age of 55. The National Advisory Committee on Immunization (NACI) said that the anti-COVID-19 vaccine should not be used in adults under 55 due to the risk of blood clots among younger recipients. NACI recommended the suspension "while the safety signal of vaccine-induced prothrombotic immune thrombocytopenia (VIPIT) following vaccination with AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is investigated further." The Canadian national broadcaster CBC reported that the AstraZeneca vaccine has not yet been widely used in the under-55 age group thus far. Canada, like several other countries, suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine entirely earlier in March. NACI said that despite the suspension, Canada is still expected to receive enough vaccine doses to be able to fully vaccinate the population by autumn of this year. Here's an overview of the latest major coronavirus developments around the world A group of global state leaders as well as the WHO and the EU co-signed an op-ed backing plans for an international treaty to better prepare for future pandemics. The signatories, which included the leaders of Germany, France and the UK among others, called for a plan to ensure greater cooperation and solidarity the next time the world is hit by a devastating pandemic. A new study by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Monday showed the BioNTech-Pfizer and Moderna vaccines to be highly effective at preventing COVID-19 infections two weeks after one dose and 90% effective two weeks after both doses have been administered. Mexico's foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, announced on Monday that his country had received a shipment of 1.5 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine on loan from the US. Mexico expects to receive 2.7 million doses from the US where the AstraZeneca jab has not yet been approved. The US, which has stockpiled some 7 million doses of the vaccine, also agreed to loan shots to Canada. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rKM7 The German city-state of Berlin suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine on all persons under the age of 60 on Tuesday after recording 31 instances of a rare cerebral blood clot among younger patients who had received the jab. Administration of the AstraZeneca shot had been previously suspended over similar fears but was later declared safe for use by health authorities. The Bavarian city of Munich has also suspended use of the jab for those under 60 — Canada stopped giving it to citizens under 55 on Monday. Germany's Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases (RKI) reported 9,549 new COVID-19 cases in the previous 24 hours on Tuesday. In the same time period, 180 new coronavirus deaths were recorded. In Italy, Sicily's top health official, Ruggero Razza, denied wrongdoing but resigned his post to "protect" the regional government on Tuesday. Razza is accused of having conspired with other local officials to falsify coronavirus data sent to the federal government by spreading infection numbers across wider geographic areas and longer time periods in an effort to avoid harsh lockdown measures linked to high infection rates. A small explosion Tuesday damaged a church near Rotterdam, Netherlands, which had reopened in defiance of government coronavirus advice and where a journalist was attacked when reporting the story. "Nobody was injured in the blast, but the front of the building was damaged," police said in a Tweet, adding "an investigation has started." Japan's health minister was prompted to apologize for employees gathering in violation of the government's COVID-19 restrictions on Tuesday. Norihisa Tamura confirmed that 23 ministry employees ate dinner together on March 24 and would investigate the matter, Japanese news agency Kyodo reported. India recorded 56,211 new cases of COVID-19, a slight drop from the country's record breaking tallies over the last three days, data from the health ministry showed on Tuesday. Also in India, Hindus sprayed water and threw colored powder in massive Holi celebrations. The celebrations took place Monday despite many Indian states restricting gatherings to curb a resurgence in coronavirus cases. Indians are celebrating Holi across the country. The festival comes amid an upswing in COVID cases, with authorities registering over 68,000 new infections on Sunday — the highest single-day spike this year. People were seen violating social distancing protocols and coronavirus prevention rules to celebrate the festival. The virus has so far killed 161,843 people in the South Asian country. Several states, including Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, have imposed restrictions on public gatherings after a worrying second surge in virus infections. In Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, state authorities ordered tests for people arriving for Holi celebrations from other states. The tests are being conducted at railway stations, airports and bus stops. Holi is a festival of colors. Generously dousing themselves and others in colored powder, people mark it to welcome spring and show thanks for good harvests. It is celebrated on the last full moon day in February or March, especially in the northern, western and eastern parts of the country. The Hindu festival also marks the triumph of the spring season over winter and also good over evil. People throw colors at each other and gather around a bonfire to signify the burning of the Holika demon on the eve of the festival. Holi is celebrated for several days in some parts of the country. Health authorities have warned that if people don't adhere to social distancing rules, the festival season could reverse India's last year gains against the pandemic. In Mathura, a city in northern India which is famous as the mythical birthplace of Lord Krishna, Holi is celebrated for 16 days. The beginning of the festival is marked with religious offerings to the Hindu god. After that, the devotees celebrate the festival singing songs about Lord Krishna and his beloved Radha. During Lathmar Holi, women in Barsana village playfully beat men from Nandgaon, the hometown of Lord Krishna, with wooden sticks. Despite restrictions on mass gatherings, hundreds of people participated in the ritual. Holi is celebrated not only in India but also in countries like the US, UK, Canada and Australia. Indian migrants to these countries celebrate the festival in the same way as they do in their homeland. Holi celebrations also take place in Germany, but this year all public festivals have been canceled due to the pandemic. Author: Akanksha Saxena In an attempt to cushion the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and climate-related shocks, the International Monetary Fund's executive board approved a $312.4 million (€265 million) extended credit facility arrangement for Madagascar. Australia reported eight new COVID-19 locally-spread cases in its populous Queensland state, a day after 2 million people entered a snap three-day lockdown in the state capital Brisbane.  