Yes, two people died from sinus vein thrombosis, and others had to be treated in hospital. And, yes, it happened in both cases after the people had received vaccinations with the Oxford vaccine from Astra-Zeneca. But to conclude that the vaccine is dangerous would be entirely premature. First, it is unclear whether the thromboses actually had anything to do with the vaccine.  And secondly, we humans take on much greater risks of thrombosis day after day than we might face as a result of the vaccine. First, the most important thing: Some people do experience thrombosis — with or without vaccination. Whether it is coincidence or whether there is a causal relationship with vaccination is usually shown by statistics. The question is: Is there an unusual increase of thrombosis cases after vaccination? "I will be happily rolling up my sleeve for the Oxford vaccine," DW's Fabian Schmidt says From what we know so far, that is not the case with the AstraZeneca vaccine. In fact, doctors in the UK alone have already administered more than 11 million doses of the vaccine. Three cases of sinus vein thrombosis have occurred. There have been seven cases in 1.6 million vaccinated people in Germany. This equates to four cases per million jabs since use of the AstraZeneca vaccine began in Germany in early February. However, this type of thrombosis occurs approximately two to five times per million people per year in the general population even without vaccination. The cases came from a batch that included a total of 1 million doses. With so many jabs administered, it stands to reason that some people will also experience thrombosis within a certain time frame of vaccination — this may be a coincidence. Nevertheless, it is right for the regulatory authorities to once again thoroughly examine all study results  and available figures, as many studies have not been fully completed because of the accelerated approval procedures. A vaccine may protect you against a specific disease, but it won't protect you against  other factors that could cause death. Currently, more very old and seriously ill people are receiving COVID-19 vaccines. People who are already vulnerable may be more likely to die of other causes. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2wOo1 All of this is no reason to panic: We deliberately take on much higher thrombosis risks elsewhere than they might now — perhaps — come by the way of vaccination. In a well-known and scientifically proved example, for every million women who take the birth control pill, about 1,100 will get thrombosis. In addition, various circumstances or behaviors  have been shown to double our risk of thrombosis. These include: obesity, travel (especially long-distance flights, car, bus or train rides) and  smoking. All of these factors have been clearly proved scientifically. A possible link to vaccinations has not been proved at all. But we must also consider the following: The sinus vein thromboses that have occurred are considered to be rarer and more dangerous than other forms of thrombosis. We are at the beginning of a dangerous third wave  of infection with the coronavirus. For Germany, medical experts are already predicting incidence rates of over 300 per week per 100,000 inhabitants. All vaccines currently available on the market are shown to work. That means: They prevent severe courses of disease and hospitalization, even with the now-dominant variants. Vaccinations save lives. And AstraZeneca's vaccine also saves lives. Given the global spread of the disease, with more than 120 million people now infected and more than 2.6 million deaths, we cannot afford to throw away even a single dose of vaccine. Each vaccine dose belongs in someone's upper arm. And, when my turn comes, I'll be happy to take the vaccine from AstraZeneca, too. Courage, curiosity or complete hubris? It's probably a mixture of all these things that causes many scientists to test their own inventions on themselves first. According to the Global Times, a Chinese doctor not only developed an oral vaccine against the SARS-CoV-2 but also tried it out himself. So far, he hasn't seen any side effects. Scientific knowledge and private pleasure can go hand in hand. The British chemist Sir Humphry Davy experimented with nitrous oxide between 1795 and 1798. With the help of his self-experiments, he discovered not only the pain-relieving effect of the gas but also its intoxicating qualities. The German physicist Johann Wilhelm Ritter not only discovered ultraviolet radiation in 1801, but also invented the first battery the following year. Ritter was also interested in galvanism — a term applied to muscle contractions caused by electric shocks. The fact that he died at the age of 33 is said to have been due in part to the galvanic self-experiments with which he maltreated his body. The Austrian psychologist and doctor Sigmund Freud is known as the founder of psychoanalysis. His methods are still used, discussed and criticized today. Less well known is that Freud researched the effects of cocaine during his time as a doctor at the Vienna General Hospital. Published letters show that Freud himself consumed coke for a long time and in large quantities. "I believe that I am on the trail of the true pathogen," wrote the American physician Jesse Lazear on September 8, 1900, in a letter to his wife. Lazear researched malaria and yellow fever. He confirmed that the latter is transmitted by mosquitoes. To study the disease, he intentionally allowed himself to be stung, fell ill and died 17 days after writing the letter. Lazear was only 34 years old. John Paul Stapp became known as the "fastest man on earth" because of his research on the effects of acceleration forces on the human body — including his own: He had himself accelerated on a so-called rocket sled up to more than 1,000 kph (621 mph) and decelerated completely in 1.4 seconds. It is the highest acceleration that a human being has ever voluntarily withstood. Werner Forssmann was already considered a troublemaker during his medical training. The German surgeon was determined to prove that a long, flexible catheter could be inserted safely from the crook of the arm to the heart. Although his superiors had expressly forbidden him to carry out the experiment, in 1929 Forssmann was the first person to try it out — on himself. Secretly, of course. The Canadian physician Ralph Steinman fell ill with pancreatic cancer and underwent an immunotherapy he developed himself. According to his physician, this therapy was unable to prevent Steinman's death, but — contrary to the prognosis — could possibly have prolonged his life by over four years. Steinman died in 2011, a few days before the Nobel Prize was awarded, which he received posthumously. Author: Julia Vergin (fs)