For safety reasons, vaccination with the Oxford vaccine from AstraZeneca  has been suspended in many countries until further notice. For Germany, this decision was made on March 15  by Health Minister Jens Spahn. Why? Seven cases of a rare thrombosis, all within a short time of vaccination, had been reported to Germany's vaccine regulatory authority, the Paul-Ehrlich-Institute (PEI). Three of them ended fatally for those affected. This is what is known so far about the connection between the vaccines and thrombosis. So far, seven cases of so-called sinus vein thrombosis have occurred in 1.6 million people vaccinated with AstraZeneca. At the same time, the affected individuals were also found to be deficient in platelets, which can affect blood clotting. In sinus vein thrombosis, a blood clot clogs the veins in the brain that are normally the route oxygen-depleted blood takes to drain to the heart. However, if the blood can no longer drain properly, the pressure in the brain increases and further bleeding can occur there. In the worst case, sinus vein thrombosis leads to fatal strokes. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qkJS However, this type of thrombosis is considered rather rare, looking at its incidence: It is estimated that two to five people per one million experience sinus vein thrombosis over the course of a year. However, recent studies indicate a higher number of people affected. As many as 15.7 cases per million people per year have been reported in an Australian study,  says Paul Hunter, professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia. That would mean the current incidence is underestimated by four to eight times, according to Hunter. Since the announcement of the vaccination pause there has been much discussion.  Especially on social media, there were many angry responses: Why is the contraception pill still prescribed, even though it is known that roughly 1,100 women will suffer thrombosis among every one million who take it. In comparison: Why do authorities throw the entire vaccination strategy out the window after only seven cases of thrombosis in 1.6 million vaccinated people? SPD health expert Karl Lauterbach criticized this comparison in an interview with German public radio Deutschlandfunk. Sinus vein thrombosis is not comparable in severity to thromboses caused by the pill, he argued. When people talk about thrombosis in connection with the contraceptive pill, they are usually referring to leg vein thrombosis. In this case, blood clots clog the veins in the legs and, if they break loose, can travel to the lungs and cause an embolism. But that is not the entire truth: taking the pill also increases the risk of the more dangerous sinus vein thrombosis. "Women are affected more often than men, and hormones probably play a role. In late pregnancy, in the puerperium and in women taking the contraceptive pill, we see sinus vein thrombosis most frequently," Peter Berlit, secretary general of the German Society for Neurology, told DW. Regardless of gender, younger people are generally affected more often than older people, he said. Spahn's decision to pause vaccine distribution is, of course, no coincidence. He is referring to a recommendation by the PEI, which tests vaccines and medicines for safety in Germany. And the PEI said in a press release  that it "recommends the temporary suspension of vaccinations with the COVID-19 vaccine AstraZeneca after intensive consultations on the serious thrombotic events that have occurred in Germany and Europe." Lauterbach said in the Deutschlandfunk interview that he thought a link between the vaccination and the thrombosis cases was quite likely. Nevertheless, in his opinion, that was not a good enough reason to suspend the vaccinations: "I would not have decided it that way based on the same data," he continued. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qfgZ Berlit, who teaches at the University of Duisburg-Essen, also has a hard time with the the authorities' decision: "At the moment, from a purely statistical point of view, there are more arguments against a connection than for a connection." Thus, the current number of cases would still be in the range of the previously known incidence for sinus vein thrombosis without vaccinations. There's still a problem with the comparison, though: Typically, statisticians look at sinus vein thrombosis over a full year. The cases associated with vaccinations, however, have all occurred since February of this year. But Berlit has a possible explanation for this, too: "It is known that sinus vein thromboses can also occur frequently in connection with infections. Of course, infections occur more frequently in the seasons of weather change, such as spring and fall. And therefore sinus vein thromboses are also more frequent," he explains. Researchers have long observed that COVID-19 infections, for example, also lead to more frequent thrombosis.  This is presumably due to the fact that in the case of COVID-19, our immune system upregulates a certain defense mechanism that influences blood clotting and can thus lead to more thromboses. Berlit considers speculation that active ingredients in the vaccine could trigger thrombosis in a similar way to COVID-19 to be speculative: "This is all hypothetical. So far, there are no indications of this. This accumulation has so far only occurred in Germany and not, for example, in England." The British are largely unimpressed by the current developments — vaccinations continue there. With 11 million doses administered, only three people have been reported as experiencing sinus vein thrombosis. Hunter of the University of East Anglia argues that a possible link needs to be investigated more closely. But he adds that one should also consider the real harm that could be done by delaying vaccination in the face of rising infection rates in Europe. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qiaL The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is currently investigating the reported cases in more detail. However, it too sees no reason for AstraZeneca to pause just yet.  While its investigations are ongoing, the EMA stated  that the benefits of AstraZeneca's vaccine in containing COVID-19 and its associated risks outweigh the side effects. Results are expected within the next two weeks. "Whether it's the right decision to completely stop giving the vaccine now for the time being, that's more of a political discussion now," Berlit finds. "I think the risk of serious neurological complications from COVID-19 infection is statistically higher than from vaccination. Actually, all the data point in that direction." Those who have already received vaccination with AstraZeneca's vaccine should watch out for the following symptoms, according to Berlit: "People who have persistent and very severe headaches within the first 2-3 weeks after vaccination need to get further evaluation." Similarly, pinpoint shaped hemorrhages in the skin along with the headache may indicate sinus vein thrombosis. With two hours of headache in one day, no one needs to worry for now. Especially not under the current changeable weather conditions. This article was translated from German Courage, curiosity or complete hubris? It's probably a mixture of all these things that causes many scientists to test their own inventions on themselves first. According to the Global Times, a Chinese doctor not only developed an oral vaccine against the SARS-CoV-2 but also tried it out himself. So far, he hasn't seen any side effects. Scientific knowledge and private pleasure can go hand in hand. The British chemist Sir Humphry Davy experimented with nitrous oxide between 1795 and 1798. With the help of his self-experiments, he discovered not only the pain-relieving effect of the gas but also its intoxicating qualities. The German physicist Johann Wilhelm Ritter not only discovered ultraviolet radiation in 1801, but also invented the first battery the following year. Ritter was also interested in galvanism — a term applied to muscle contractions caused by electric shocks. The fact that he died at the age of 33 is said to have been due in part to the galvanic self-experiments with which he maltreated his body. The Austrian psychologist and doctor Sigmund Freud is known as the founder of psychoanalysis. His methods are still used, discussed and criticized today. Less well known is that Freud researched the effects of cocaine during his time as a doctor at the Vienna General Hospital. Published letters show that Freud himself consumed coke for a long time and in large quantities. "I believe that I am on the trail of the true pathogen," wrote the American physician Jesse Lazear on September 8, 1900, in a letter to his wife. Lazear researched malaria and yellow fever. He confirmed that the latter is transmitted by mosquitoes. To study the disease, he intentionally allowed himself to be stung, fell ill and died 17 days after writing the letter. Lazear was only 34 years old. John Paul Stapp became known as the "fastest man on earth" because of his research on the effects of acceleration forces on the human body — including his own: He had himself accelerated on a so-called rocket sled up to more than 1,000 kph (621 mph) and decelerated completely in 1.4 seconds. It is the highest acceleration that a human being has ever voluntarily withstood. Werner Forssmann was already considered a troublemaker during his medical training. The German surgeon was determined to prove that a long, flexible catheter could be inserted safely from the crook of the arm to the heart. Although his superiors had expressly forbidden him to carry out the experiment, in 1929 Forssmann was the first person to try it out — on himself. Secretly, of course. The Canadian physician Ralph Steinman fell ill with pancreatic cancer and underwent an immunotherapy he developed himself. According to his physician, this therapy was unable to prevent Steinman's death, but — contrary to the prognosis — could possibly have prolonged his life by over four years. Steinman died in 2011, a few days before the Nobel Prize was awarded, which he received posthumously. Author: Julia Vergin (fs)