At least 18 people died after security forces tried to disperse anti-coup protesters in Myanmar on Wednesday, a local human rights group said. Multiple reports from several cities and towns said police used live ammunition, as well as tear gas and rubber bullets. "As of now, so called military killed at least 18," Ko Bo Kyi, joint secretary of the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners rights group, posted on Twitter. At least 40 people have been killed in Myanmar since the February 1 coup. At least six people were shot dead in the city of Monywa in the country's Sagaing region, the local Monywa Gazette reported. The central city has turned out large anti-coup demonstrations in the past month. Two demonstrators, reported to have been a 37-year-old man and a 19-year-old woman, were also killed in the second city of Mandalay. At least one individual was killed and others injured in the central town of Myingyan, with reports of another fatality unconfirmed. "They opened fire on us with live bullets. One was killed, he's young, a teenage boy, shot in the head," student activist Moe Myint Hein, who was wounded in the leg, told Reuters by telephone from  Myingyan. In a statement, global NGO Save the Children said four children were among the dead, including a 14-year-old boy who was reportedly shot dead by a soldier on a passing convoy of military trucks. The soldiers loaded his body onto a truck and then fled the scene, according to the report. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3q7nd Witnesses said at least eight people were killed in the main city Yangon. "I heard so much continuous firing. I lay down on the ground, they shot a lot," protester Kaung Pyae Sone Tun, 23, told Reuters. In the night, Yangon residents lit candles and held prayers for the victims. Myanmar has faced chaos since February 1 when the military staged a coup and arrested de facto civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The coup brought to a halt Myanmar's decade-long experiment with more democratic governance and sparked daily mass protests. The military regime in Myanmar on Tuesday said it had suspended its envoy to the United Nations, the Aung San Suu Kyi-appointed Kyaw Moe Tun. However, Tun has contradicted this, saying he should stay in post. mvb, rc/msh (AFP, AP, Reuters) 