Does a flu vaccination protect against COVID-19? And if so, why? These are the questions medical professionals are asking, because a team of doctors led by Anna Conlon from the University of Michigan came to some startling conclusions in a recent study published in the American Journal of Infection Control. The physicians had looked at patient data from 27,201 Michigan residents who had taken a COVID-19 test before July 15, 2020. Of those, 12,997 had previously been vaccinated against the flu. The study found that the proportion of flu-vaccinated people who contracted the coronavirus was slightly lower than among those who had not been vaccinated, 4% instead of 4.9%. In addition, the flu-vaccinated patients were also less likely to require hospitalization or ventilation for coronavirus infection, and their hospital stays were shorter on average. However, there were no significant differences in mortality between the two comparison groups. The crucial question for the experts: Is there a medical and a microbiological explanation for these results? This could be, for example, the innate immune defense, which is possibly activated by the flu vaccination. The immune defense functions independently of learned antibody immunity, which primarily targets the characteristic spike protein when fighting COVID-19, thus rendering the virus harmless. In contrast, the innate immune defense, which may be stimulated by vaccination, consists of a number of different elements which react to infections in general, not specific viruses. This standing army of our immune defenses includes, for example, phagocytes and dendritic cells (cells which ingest harmful foreign particles), but also various cytokines (proteins that play a role in immune reactions and inflammatory processes) as well as T and B leukocytes (white blood cells). Some vaccinations are generally good for the immune defense, as can be seen in people vaccinated against measles, for example. Epidemiological studies showed years ago that vaccinated children still had a higher immunity to a variety of pathogens than non-vaccinated children, even a very long time after the vaccination took place. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dyUV It is also conceivable, however, that fewer people who had been vaccinated against the flu contracted COVID-19 simply because they were more cautious than non-vaccinated people. More people from high-risk groups, like seniors and people with preexisting conditions, typically get vaccinated against influenza than young and healthy people. In the United States, for example, many seniors and retirees had already voluntarily isolated themselves early last year, while others were still out in public. However, there are two indications against such a correlation: Seniors typically show more severe courses of COVID-19, which was not the case with those who got flu shots in the Michigan study. A non peer-reviewed preprint study from last year points more to an immunologic explanation: Among Dutch hospital workers who had received the influenza vaccination ahead of the the 2019/2020 flu season, COVID-19 occurred significantly less often than among those who had not been vaccinated. And there were no seniors over 70 years of age in either of these groups. All of those studied were of working age and had a correspondingly high number of contact encounters. Most mammals can synthesize vitamin C i.e., produce it themselves. But humans can't; we must ingest this water-soluble micronutrient with our food. Vitamin C can be found in kiwis, oranges and grapefruits, but also in vegetables such as brussels sprouts, broccoli and peppers. Unfortunately, it is somewhat heat-sensitive — so be careful when cooking! Vitamin C is not just a nice-to-have that is mainly important for the old, the sick and vegans. On the contrary, its biochemical functions are the same and equally important in every body. Vitamin C is one of the micronutrients that, although they do not provide the body with energy, are essential for its basic functions. These include cell metabolism and our defense system. As an antioxidant, vitamin C reduces the damage caused by oxygen free radicals to molecules that are essential for the body. These radicals are produced during normal metabolic processes. However, harmful substances such as tobacco quickly lead to oxidative stress and the increased formation of free radicals. This also increases the need for vitamin C. The human body doesn't just use the vitamin C of these strawberries to protect against oxygen radicals; the vitamin is also an important cofactor in a number of enzymatic activities, such as the synthesis of the protein collagen, which forms part of tendons, bones, cartilage and the skin. Poor wound healing can thus indicate a vitamin C deficiency. The body needs vitamin C to defend itself against infections. As an antioxidant, vitamin C is responsible not only for cell protection; it also goes on the attack in the event of an infection. It stimulates the migration of immune cells, known as neutrophils, to the site of infection, promotes phagocytosis — cellular waste disposal — and kills pathogens. Severe vitamin C deficiency can lead to scurvy. Symptoms of this potentially fatal disease are poor wound healing, bruising, loss of hair and teeth and joint pain. To protect against it, 10 milligrams of vitamin C daily are sufficient. Sufficient vitamin C is also associated with a lower risk of high blood pressure, coronary heart disease and strokes. According to the German consumer advice center, the recommended daily intake of vitamin C is 110 mg for men and 95 mg for women. Oregon State University researchers recommend 400 mg per day for all adults. The vitamin is harmless, and if too much is ingested, it is excreted in the urine. Researchers say that whether taken as a dietary supplement or as brussels sprouts, it is the same vitamin C. Author: Julia Vergin  