China has reported the highest jump in export growth in over two decades, a year on from the coronavirus outbreak that brought economic activity to a near halt worldwide. Exports spiked a huge 60.6% on-year in the January-February period, official data showed on Sunday. The latest figures are in stark contrast to last year's fall of around 17% in exports, during the same time period. This year's growth exceeded the forecast of analysts in a Reuters poll for a nearly 39% surge. Imports also rose, but less sharply. They increased by just over 22% from a 4% drop in imports during the same time last year. The comparison to last year's exceptionally low numbers likely boosted the latest figures. A "low base is one of the reasons for the larger increase this year," the customs administration said in a statement. But some Chinese-made products did see spikes in outbound shipments. Official data showed that electronics exports rose by 54.1%. Textiles including face masks rose 50.2%. This was driven by demand for work-from-home supplies and protective medical gear during the pandemic. Improvements in manufacturing industries in the European Union and the United States that had ground to a halt during the start of the pandemic also contributed to export growth. Unusually, many firms in export-oriented provinces stayed open over the Lunar New Year. This meant that "orders that usually only get delivered after the new year have been delivered normally," the customs statement said. Guiyu in southern China was long considered the world's biggest electronics recycling site. And it was a highly polluting one at that. More than 5000 small family-run businesses recycled everything from screens to motherboards. Poor workers did much of the recycling — dismantling, sorting and processing the components by hand. This work often took place in homes or by the side of the road, and frequently with little or no protective gear. But the process was very dirty. People burned parts or used toxic chemicals to separate precious metals and other materials from the components. The air was filled with toxins and the ground water became so polluted that it wasn't suitable for drinking. In 2013, the provincial government stepped in. It built a large industrial park on the city's outskirts. If recyclers wanted to stay in business, they had to move to the facility, which was equipped with modern air and water filtration systems to protect the environment. By 2015, the facility was open for business. Having to rent space there cut into the profit margins of smaller companies. Some went bust, but the upside was that air quality improved dramatically. The streets are cleaner too, say residents. This year, China decided it no longer wanted to be the world's dumping ground and banned imports of 24 kinds of waste. As a result, there are no more discarded and broken electronics arriving in Guiyu from Europe or the United States. Well, not officially. For years, China neglected local waste because so much was flowing in from abroad. It arrived better sorted than domestic trash and was more economical to process. Even now, some recyclers are turning to more lucrative illegally imported electronic waste. But now Beijing plans to invest billions in household waste treatment over the next few years to deal with its domestic trash problem. According to local media reports, Chinese authorities are trying to encourage people to sort their trash properly at home. Author: Harald Franzen Chinese factories traditionally shut during the Lunar New Year break, which fell in the middle of February this year, as workers return to their hometowns. This year, the government asked workers to avoid traveling to curb the risk of a spread of the coronavirus. China's overall trade surplus came in at $103.3 billion (€86.7 billion), its customs administration reported. The country's trade surplus with the US — a key point of contention during the trade war pursued by former US President Donald Trump — doubled from the same period last year to $51.3 billion. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pbWA Despite the growth in exports, China is remaining cautious after a year disrupted by COVID-19 and amid heightened tensions, including the ongoing trade dispute, with the United States. This year, China has set a modest growth target of at least 6%. kmm/mm (Reuters, AFP) 