French pharmaceutical firm Sanofi announced the launch of human trials of its second COVID-19 vaccine on Friday. Sanofi and US company Translate Bio are developing the vaccine based on messenger RNA (mRNA) technology, which is also used by BioNTech-Pfizer and Moderna. The first shot Sanofi developed in conjunction with Britain's GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), is still in the testing phase . A total of 415 healthy adults across 13 sites will participate in the first trials, with results expected in the third quarter of 2021. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qUm9 Participants will receive either a single dose of the vaccine or two doses 21 days apart. Three dose levels will be examined, the companies said. Sanofi has not given any further indication on the timeline of the project. In December 2020, Sanofi had said it was eyeing "earliest potential approval" of its mRNA vaccine in the second half of 2021, following positive preclinical data. Courage, curiosity or complete hubris? It's probably a mixture of all these things that causes many scientists to test their own inventions on themselves first. According to the Global Times, a Chinese doctor not only developed an oral vaccine against the SARS-CoV-2 but also tried it out himself. So far, he hasn't seen any side effects. Scientific knowledge and private pleasure can go hand in hand. The British chemist Sir Humphry Davy experimented with nitrous oxide between 1795 and 1798. With the help of his self-experiments, he discovered not only the pain-relieving effect of the gas but also its intoxicating qualities. The German physicist Johann Wilhelm Ritter not only discovered ultraviolet radiation in 1801, but also invented the first battery the following year. Ritter was also interested in galvanism — a term applied to muscle contractions caused by electric shocks. The fact that he died at the age of 33 is said to have been due in part to the galvanic self-experiments with which he maltreated his body. The Austrian psychologist and doctor Sigmund Freud is known as the founder of psychoanalysis. His methods are still used, discussed and criticized today. Less well known is that Freud researched the effects of cocaine during his time as a doctor at the Vienna General Hospital. Published letters show that Freud himself consumed coke for a long time and in large quantities. "I believe that I am on the trail of the true pathogen," wrote the American physician Jesse Lazear on September 8, 1900, in a letter to his wife. Lazear researched malaria and yellow fever. He confirmed that the latter is transmitted by mosquitoes. To study the disease, he intentionally allowed himself to be stung, fell ill and died 17 days after writing the letter. Lazear was only 34 years old. John Paul Stapp became known as the "fastest man on earth" because of his research on the effects of acceleration forces on the human body — including his own: He had himself accelerated on a so-called rocket sled up to more than 1,000 kph (621 mph) and decelerated completely in 1.4 seconds. It is the highest acceleration that a human being has ever voluntarily withstood. Werner Forssmann was already considered a troublemaker during his medical training. The German surgeon was determined to prove that a long, flexible catheter could be inserted safely from the crook of the arm to the heart. Although his superiors had expressly forbidden him to carry out the experiment, in 1929 Forssmann was the first person to try it out — on himself. Secretly, of course. The Canadian physician Ralph Steinman fell ill with pancreatic cancer and underwent an immunotherapy he developed himself. According to his physician, this therapy was unable to prevent Steinman's death, but — contrary to the prognosis — could possibly have prolonged his life by over four years. Steinman died in 2011, a few days before the Nobel Prize was awarded, which he received posthumously. Author: Julia Vergin (fs) But Sanofi's Chief Executive Paul Hudson told French newspaper Le Journal du Dimanche last month that the vaccine "will not be ready this year." Like other mRNA vaccines, Sanofi and Translate Bio's will use a small part of the virus' own genetic information to spark an immune response. The French firm is aiming for a -20 degrees Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit) storage temperature of the vaccine at launch. But they hope the vaccine can eventually be stable at a 2-8 degrees Celsius temperature. By comparison, the BioNTech-Pfizer shot needs to be stored at temperatures of -70 degrees Celsius. Once thawed, it can only survive for around five days at temperatures of 2-8 degrees Celsius. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3owGO The Moderna vaccine can be stored between -25 to -15 degrees Celcius but can remain thawed between 2-8 degrees Celsius for up to 30 days. Last month, Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline launched a new clinical trial of its first COVID-19 vaccine candidate. The firms are attempting to revive the development of a recombinant protein-based shot after earlier tests showed a low immune response in older adults, Sanofi announced in December. kmm/rt (AFP, Reuters) 