Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta announced on Friday tightening restrictions in the capital Nairobi and four surrounding hard-hit counties. "The death rate is devastating by all measures, and the stress the pandemic is placing on our health system is unparalleled," Kenyatta said in a televised address as the East African country stands on the brink of a third wave. "Between January and February three people died every day from COVID. In March 2021, the number has gone up to seven every day, the highest since this pandemic hit us,'' he said. The restrictions include a pause on all movement into or from Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Nakuru and Kiambu. Public gatherings are banned, and an evening curfew will be imposed to last from 8 p.m. until 4 a.m. in the affected counties. Kenyatta also called on those eligible for the first round of vaccination to get the jab. He and his wife received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Kenya received 1.02 million doses of the AstraZeneca jab through the global COVAX initiative. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qHtO Pfizer has begun clinical trials for its COVID vaccine in children under the age of eleven, the company said Thursday. "Together with our partner BioNTech, we have dosed the first healthy children in a global Phase 1/2/3 continuous study to further evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine," Pfizer told the news agency AFP. "We are proud to start this much-needed study for children and families eagerly awaiting a possible vaccine option." The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said it had given the green light for the production of the AstraZeneca vaccine to start in the Dutch Halix factory. It had also authorized production of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine at a plant in Marburg, Germany as well as increased production of the Moderna vaccine in Switzerland. The EU is hoping the boosted production will help accelerate the block's vaccination drive. Germany will require everyone entering the country by plane to undergo a coronavirus test starting on Monday night — the rule was initially planned to come into effect on Sunday but was pushed back. Previously, only travelers from high-risk areas were required to present a negative test. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases classified France as a high-risk area due to the surge in coronavirus cases. The RKI also downgraded Slovakia and the Czech Republic from the highest-alert list to high-risk. Meanwhile, the number of confirmed cases in Germany increased by 21,573, bringing the total to 2,734,753 since the start of the pandemic. The reported death toll rose by 183 to 75,623, data from the RKI showed. By Friday, 10% of the German population had received at least one vaccine dose, according to the government's vaccination dashboard, three months after Germany administered its first COVID-19 vaccine. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rD64 A 750 billion euro ($885 billion) EU coronavirus recovery fund was ratified by the German parliament, breaking with its tradition of tight fisted fiscal policy and caution for taking on debt. The fund aims at dragging the continent back onto a path of economic growth. A German aircraft is due to arrive Saturday in the Brazilian city of Manaus with 80 ventilators to help one of the worst affected areas by the coronavirus pandemic. The air force soldiers are set to spend only two hours in north-western Brazil and avoid contact. European Union leaders agreed at a summit on Thursday to increase the production of COVID-19 vaccines in Europe. The bloc also increased control over exports of COVID vaccines outside of the EU in a bid to combat vaccine shortages. In Italy, the southern Campania region signed an agreement to buy the Sputnik V vaccine once the EMA authorizes the Russian jab. Campania has been one of the hardest-hit areas since the pandemic hit Italy. EMA began a rolling review of Sputnik V earlier in March. Some businesses in the United States are offering their workers incentives to take the vaccines. Many grocery chains offering two to four hours of paid leave time for employees to get vaccinated, while others are offering transportation, and bonuses of up to $500 (€424). These businesses are most where the workers are at a high risk of contracting the virus, such as slaughterhouses, supermarkets, and farms. California's Bolthouse Farms has been paying $500 to all full-time employees who take the jabs while Kroger, the largest grocery chain in the country, is giving $100 to those who are vaccinated. By early 2020, the epidemic was full blown in the Chinese metropolis of Wuhan, where experts are still investigating the origins of the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Then on March 11, WHO officially described the international COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic. This street art in the city depicts two nurses dressed in full protective gear while fighting the virus. One of the first big outbreaks of the virus in Europe occurred in Italy in the northern region of Lombardy, where hospitals were filled to capacity. Naturally, the entire country was affected, with tourism essentially shutting down, including in Rome where these two rule-abiding lovers were painted. Early in the pandemic in Germany, toilet paper became a hot commodity, as people started worrying about supply shortages. And since it did run out of stock, grocery stores had to put limits on the number of packages that could be purchased. In this Berlin artwork by Eme Freethinker, Gollum from "Lord of the Rings" watches the squirrel Scrat from "Ice Age" as he steals a roll of toilet paper. Healhcare workers have been applauded as they work tirelessly through the unforgiving pandemic. It's no wonder that graffiti artists around the world have idolized them. In this painting by urban artist Applez, in Mexico City, a healthcare worker wears a mask with Superman's logo. Another picture paying homage to health care workers is this mural in Melbourne, Australia. It was painted for International Nurses Day, on May 12, 2020, which is celebrated in honor of Florence Nightingale, the English founder of modern nursing born on that date 200 years ago. A pedestrian walks past street art in Glasgow, Scotland depicting the subjects of famous artworks wearing masks. The UK imposed heavy restrictions in December after a new variant of the virus, now referred to as the "British variant," began to circulate rapidly. This work of art is on the side of a hospital in Thessaloniki, where medical and nursing staff first tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the summer of 2020. Cases are currently on the rise in both cities, which have been in strict lockdown since November. In the past year, many of us have likely pondered hygienic practices more than ever. Members of the Senegalese graffiti collective RBS CREW tag a wall of the Cheikh Anta Diop University in Dakar with a graffiti representing a man sneezing into his flexed elbow, as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 virus. An Indian resident wearing a facemask walks past a graffiti of the Buddha also wearing a similar blue surgical mask. Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who lives in northern India, was given the first dose of a coronavirus vaccine on March 6 and urged others to do the same. A mural by artist Emma Blake mimics the famous "We can do it!" American wartime poster. In the war against the virus, the battle is being fought in hospitals around the world by healthcare workers like the one depicted in this painting found in Dublin, Ireland. When former US President Donald Trump was in office, he initially downplayed the seriousness of the virus and at one point even suggested injecting disinfectant could cure it. A mural mocking the former president was painted by street artist Pure Genius in New York City. A graffiti featuring Albert Einstein wearing a mask by artist Kate Tully is displayed in Prospect Heights, Illinois. Although the pandemic hit the US hard, causing hundreds of thousands of deaths so far, it is currently leading Europe in vaccine distribution. A girl wearing a mask holding a heart painted with the colors of the Dutch flag was painted as a sign of hope for those suffering from the coronavirus and its effects. In January and February violent clashes broke out between riot police and Dutch residents angry about new coronavirus restrictions. Residents wearing masks walk past a mean-looking coronavirus which is clearly unwelcome in Nairobi, Kenya, where it was painted. Kenya is currently distributing the AstraZeneca vaccine, making it the first East African nation to receive the vaccination. Author: Sarah Hucal Peru's Health Minister Oscar Ugarte said that a study based on a sampling throughout Lima showed that the new Brazilian variant was responsible for 40 percent of infections in the capital city. Peru has a 2,800-kilometer-long border with Brazil and first detected the variant in January in its Amazonian region of Loreto. Uruguay, which until recently was praised for its management of the pandemic and ability to limit its spread without going into a lockdown, is now confronted by a "complex situation," President Luis Lacalle Pou said. The new variant has put Uruguay's health system under pressure. Argentina will suspend flights from Brazil, Chile, and Mexico starting Saturday to prevent the spread of different variants of the coronavirus from entering the country. Travelers returning from abroad will also be tested for COVID-19 before boarding a flight, upon arrival and seven days later, local media reported. "Until further notice, regular flights will be suspended from... Chile, Brazil, Mexico," the Argentinian government said in a statement. A similar measure was already in place for flights from the United Kingdom after a new variant was detected there in December. The Latin American country has so far registered more than 2.2 million cases of COVID-19, and over 55,000 deaths. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3py8I Paraguay is running out of beds in intensive care units, while President Mario Abdo's handling of the coronavirus crisis has led to protests demanding his resignation. Mexico surpassed 200,000 coronavirus death, becoming the third country in the world to cross this bleak milestone. The total number of fatalities now stands at 200,211, the health ministry said. As the country prepared for the Easter holidays around the start of April, Hugo Lopez-Gatell, Mexico's top infectious disease expert warned of the risk of a new wave of infections. Colombia has approved the emergency use of Johnson and Johnson's single-shot COVID-19 vaccine, the director of the food and drug regulator INVIMA said on Thursday. "In its capacity as regulator, INVIMA has authorized the emergency use of the vaccine from the pharmaceutical company Janssen, of the multinational Johnson & Johnson Colombia," INVIMA director Julio Cesar Aldana said. The J&J vaccine is single-shot and has less demanding storage needs than some other approved vaccines, he said. Nepal relaxed quarantine rules for visitors on Friday, in a bid to draw more climbers to Mount Everest. Under the new rules, visitors will still need to present proof of vaccination or a negative PCR test before entering the country. They will be tested upon arriving in Nepal, but will only have to remain in quarantine until their test comes back negative. Visitors previously had to remain in quarantine for seven days. A health worker in Nepal collects a swab sample from a member of a Mount Everest expedition team from Bahrain Australia on Friday reported its first locally acquired coronavirus case in more than a week after a 26-year-old man in Queensland tested positive. The person has been infectious for a week but remained isolated at home since developing symptoms on Monday, Queensland state Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said. Authorities have placed restrictions on hospitals, retirement homes, and disability centers in the state capital Brisbane, banning visitors starting Friday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rCMz Every third Ethiopian could be infected with COVID-19, the country's national public health institute said on Thursday, calling the situation "alarming." Local media reported that all of the East African nation's intensive care units were occupied, and no oxygen tanks were available. Ethiopia is among the five African nations worst affected by the pandemic. fb,adi/rc (Reuters, AFP, dpa, AP) 