Again and again, reports of vaccinated people getting COVID-19 appear in the news but that is neither a reason to get angry, nor an argument to reject vaccines. Even if someone has mild symptoms after vaccination, or tests positive for the coronavirus, the vaccine remains effective, doing what it is supposed to do: Preventing severe disease progression and death. All of the vaccines approved by the health authorities of the EU (EMA) and the US (FDA) have exhibited high efficacy. For example, mRNA vaccines from Biontech/Pfizer and Moderna achieve about 95% efficacy, while AstraZeneca's vector vaccine achieves 76%, according to recent data. However, this means it is still possible to become infected after vaccination. Still, if efficacy is considered according to the severity of the course of the disease, all vaccines perform significantly better than using none at all. In the event of infection, for instance, vaccines usually prevent the type of severe infection that requires people be put on ventilators, or even kills them. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3r0mw In Germany, however, there have been some cases in which seniors in nursing homes still had severe COVID-19 courses even after vaccination, and some even died. The Robert Koch Institute (RKI), Germany's central authority for infectious diseases, writes that two circumstances in particular can lead to illness after vaccination — namely, if the infection occurred shortly before vaccination or in the days immediately thereafter. The reason? The body needs about two weeks to fully build up immunity. Thus, complete protection is only achieved two weeks after a patient has received his or her second vaccination shot. When it comes to vaccination, doctors distinguish between sterilizing and functional immunity. Sterilizing means that a vaccinated person can no longer infect anyone. The first evaluations of BioNTech/Pfizer vaccines administered in Israel  showed that people who had been vaccinated twice had a 92% lower risk of infecting other people. In this respect, it is safe to say that the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine offers a fairly high sterilizing immunity against the most common coronavirus variants. Though conclusive figures are not yet available for other coronavirus vaccines, efficacy is likely comparable. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mvc8 Nevertheless, only when there is clear evidence that vaccinated individuals cannot infect others, or when a sufficiently high "herd immunity" has been achieved, can authorities exempt vaccinated people from obligations such as wearing masks, or consider easing social distancing rules. Still, though we have not yet reached that point, all of the vaccines currently available have been shown to provide functional immunity, i.e., prevent or reduce the risk of severe symptoms. And even in rare cases of disease occurring, vaccines significantly shorten the course of illness. So far, there is no clear answer to this question for any of the vaccines. Before vaccines are approved, researchers must determine how safe they are. And in Phase III vaccine development experts focus on functional efficacy. But only with time will we learn how long immunity from the vaccines lasts. That's why the period after vaccines are licensed is also known as Phase IV of vaccine development. We are now in the middle of this phase. Reliable statements about the duration of immunity will only be possible after several months or even years. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qYbd Each vaccine responds differently to viral mutations. At the moment, vaccine developers are concerned about the P.1 variant found in Brazil. This mutant variation has infected numerous people even though they had already been previously infected or vaccinated. The South African variant B.1.351 can also infect people who have been vaccinated, as medical experts were able to prove with the AstraZeneca vaccine. But here, too, physicians assume vaccines will at least lead to milder courses of the disease and reduce the number of patients who require intensive care medical treatment. This has to do with the fact that immunity consists of two components — antibody immunity against the spike protein, in which individual components can mutate, and T-cell immunity, which continues to protect even when the antibodies are no longer as effective. The immune system needs many different types of fuel. Fruit and vegetables provide them. Your diet should be healthy and colorful: Oranges, red peppers, green leafy vegetables and red cabbage provide a potpourri of vitamins, and are especially rich in natural vitamin C. In order to ensure your immune system is top-top, make sure you have all the necessary immunizations. Adults often forget to refresh vaccinations they had when they were young. Check if you need booster shots for tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, polio, hepatitis, pneumococcus, meningitis, measles, mumps, rubella, the flu and others. Be sure to talk to your doctor! Scientific studies suggest that regular muscle training (jogging, nordic or pole walking, taking a stroll), three times a week for 20 minutes can boost your defenses. But be careful: overdoing it can also drain your immune system. Sufficient sleep doesn't just allow your body to recuperate. During the slow-wave sleep phase, neurotransmitters are released and the immune system springs into action. Studies show that good spirits and a zest for life promote a strong immune system. Laughing and playing don't just provide for a better quality of life, they also boost the body's defenses. Negative stress activates the release of adrenalin and cortisol. These hormones can paralyze the immune system. Sensible stress and time management allows the body to rest and replenish new energy. Selective relaxation exercises like meditation, autogenic training and yoga can significantly boost the immune system. Taking walks in the fresh air gives you a change of temperature and exercise - both stimulate the body's defense systems. Mucous membranes also benefit from improved circulation and the increased humidity makes it easier to fight off attacks. Studies have shown that burning up short chain sugars like fructose and glucose uses up many vitamins that are no longer available to the body. Alternating hot and cold showers help regulate body heat and improve blood flow. An invigorating massage with a massage sponge or brush stimulates the immune system even more.  