A collision between two passenger trains in central Egypt on Friday left at least 32 people dead, the Egyptian Health Ministry said. A statement from the Health Ministry confirmed that "32 people were killed and 165 injured" and transported to the hospital. Three passenger cars were flipped over in the collision. Videos from the scene depicted people still trapped inside. Dozens of ambulances raced to the scene of the crash in the Tahta district of Sohag province, around 460 kilometers (285 miles) south of the capital, Cairo. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rG2Q Egypt's railway authority said the accident was caused by an unknown individual applying the emergency brakes in the first train, which was subsequently hit by the train behind, causing two carriages to derail. "The trains collided while going at not very high speeds, which led to the destruction of two carriages and a third to overturn," a security source told Reuters. "The [railway] service has been neglected for decades to an extent that made it quite outdated and extremely dangerous," Egyptian Prime Minister Mustafa Madbouly told reporters after he arrived to the scene. "We have spent billions to upgrade the railway but we still have a long way to go in order to complete all the required work.'' Egypt has a history of train accidents caused by poorly maintained equipment and bad management. Official figures recorded 1,793 train accidents in 2017. One of those accidents left 43 people dead when two trains collided near the Mediterranean port city of Alexandria. More than 300 people were killed in Egypt's deadliest train accident when a speeding train caught fire in 2003. In 2018, President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi said that the government needed around 250 billion Egyptian pounds ($14.1 billion, €11.97 billion) in order to bring the country's run-down railway system up-to-date. Egypt has one of the oldest and largest railway networks in Africa. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3r5lu  