German Chancellor Angela Merkel reversed a plan on Wednesday for an extended Easter holiday shutdown to try stem a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic after it triggered a fierce backlash. "The idea of an Easter shutdown was drafted with the best of intentions. We urgently need to stop and reverse the third wave of the pandemic," Merkel said, apologizing for hastily-made plans. "It was a mistake," Merkel said, adding: "Because at the end of the day, I carry the last responsibility." Merkel said that on closer analysis, the planned shutdown risked doing more harm than good. She also said there was not enough time to adequately offset some of the problems that would come with it, such as lost earnings and working hours. The German government then agreed to borrow a total of €240.2 billion ($284 billion) in 2021, a third more than initially planned, to weather the economic blow of the pandemic. The adjusted budget still has to be approved by parliament.  The US will have 600 million doses of coronavirus vaccine available by the end of May, enough for every US citizen, President Joe Biden has announced. Getting vaccinated is a "patriotic responsibility," Biden said during a visit to a cancer center in the US state of Ohio. The government has ordered a total of 600 million doses from the Moderna  and the BioNTech-Pfizer companies, allowing for 300 million people to be fully vaccinated. In addition, the US government has secured another 200 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson-developed single-dose shot. More than 45.5 million people have already been fully vaccinated across the country, according to government data. Roughly 260 million are believed to eligible to get vaccinated in the US. Here is an overview of the latest coronavirus news from around the world. Hong Kong and Macau have suspended the use of the BioNTech-Pfizer's coronavirus vaccine after being informed of defective packaging with a batch of vials. The German manufacturer notified Hong Kong and Macau of issues with packaging lids, the South China Morning Post newspaper has reported. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3r0mw BioNTech and Fosun Pharma, the Chinese company that is distributing the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine in China, have launched an investigation. The firms have requested the suspension until their investigations have been completed. The Hong Kong government has stressed that the suspension is a preventative measure. India has detected a "new double mutant variant" as researchers were analyzing samples of "variants of concern" (VOCs), including those first recorded in Britain and Brazil, the health ministry said on Wednesday. "Though VOCs and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish a direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states," the ministry said in a statement. The 74-year-old minister reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 on March 20 France's Culture Minister Roselyne Bachelot has been hospitalized after testing positive for coronavirus, local media reported on Wednesday. The employment minister, Elizabeth Borne, is also treated in hospital for the disease. France is facing several tough weeks ahead due to a third wave, French Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin told broadcaster BFM TV on Wednesday. According to media reports, Jean-Francois Timsit, head of the intensive care unit (ICU) at a Paris hospital, warned that the coming month would be "infernal" for the French hospital system. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qv3U Poland is also set to announce new restrictions from Thursday as infections rise again. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has provided no further information on what the new curbs might be. Germany's Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases has registered 15,813 new cases within 24 hours. This is an increase of 2,387 from the same time the previous week. The increase in figures comes a day after Germany's state premiers and Chancellor Angela Merkel agreed to extend the coronavirus lockdown until April 18. mvb, kmm/dj (dpa, Reuters, AFP, AP) 