Philippine troops have tracked down and killed a leader of Abu Sayyaf and rescued the last of his four Indonesian hostages, the military announced on Sunday. Marines wounded Majan Sahidjuan, alias Apo Mike, in a gun battle on Saturday night in the town of Languyan in southern Tawi-Tawi province. The rebel commander later died from loss of blood, said Lieutenant General Corleto Vinluan Jr., of the military's Western Mindanao Command. According to Vinluan, Sahidjuan had plotted several ransom kidnappings since the early 1990s. "We are happy that all the hostages are safe now and we are also able to neutralize the notorious 'Apo Mike' and two of his comrades," Vinluan said. Abu Sayyaf is based in Sulu, a Muslim province in the Philippines. Since 2014, it has proclaimed allegiance to the "Islamic State" militia. The Philippines is a largely Roman Catholic nation. The military reported that Sahidjuan and four other Abu Sayyaf militants fled from assaults in Sulu province by boat on Thursday. They attempted to cross the sea border to Tambisan Island in neighboring Malaysia's Sabah state, where they planned to release their hostages in exchange for a ransom of about 5 million pesos (€87,000/$104,000). Inmates who cannot be accommodated in the prison cells sleep on the ground in the open air. At present, it's rainy season in the Philippines. And in the current tropical temperatures, it's raining almost every day. Whoever possesses a hammock should consider themselves lucky. The prison, which was built 60 years ago, has a capacity to house 800 inmates. But today there are as many as 3,800. Every nook and corner in the prison is occupied. Most of the prisoners sleep on either thin sheets or bare concrete floor. A prisoner toughens up his muscles in an exercise room. Signboards remind inmates of prison rules. The handcuffed prisoners shown here are awaiting their trial. One prisoner cleans the toilet while the others try to kill time. Only occasionally can the prisoners free themselves of sweat, filth and stench. A guard locks the gate in the evening, while the inmates get ready for another night in the overcrowded prison. Many hold newly elected President Duterte responsible for the inhumane situation. His campaign against drugs has shown no mercy. He has called on the people to kill drug addicts, which has led to an unprecedented wave of vigilantism in the Southeast Asian nation. Cases have been filed against 600,000 drug dealers and addicts so far, completely overwhelming the justice system. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen / sri Their boat capsized due to strong waves. This allowed troops, who had already been notified of the operation, to launch covert assaults and rescue three of the four hostages:  Arizal Kasta Miran, 30; Arsad Bin Dahlan, 41; and Andi Riswanto, 26. The fourth hostage, Mohd Khairuldin, 15, was found by government troops in the same village where the gun battle took place. The four captives were among five Indonesians kidnapped by the Abu Sayyaf on January 17, 2020, off Tambisan. One of the five was killed while trying to escape. The Abu Sayyaf  has been blacklisted by the Philippines and the US as a terrorist organization for bombings, ransom kidnappings and beheadings. mvb/dj (AP, Reuters) 