Scientists in the US and Australia have created the first human embryo models in Petri dishes, according to a report in the British scientific journal Nature. The report takes the findings of two studies that show human embryonic stem cells or cells reprogrammed from adult tissues  can be induced to self-organize in a Petri dish, forming structures that resemble early human embryos. In the early stages of development, human embryos form a structure called the blastocyst. The researchers have created human blastocyst-like structures or "blastoids" from cells in a Petri dish. It is the first integrated human embryo model to contain cell types that relate to all the founding cell lineages of the fetus and its supporting tissues, the report stated. The human blastoids could be an accessible, scalable alternative to blastocysts that could help to improve assisted reproductive technologies, insights into early development and prevent pregnancy loss and birth defects, the studies stated. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mEJu Studying the early development of a human embryo can be difficult due to the limited number available and ethical and legal constraints. The International Consensus and National law for culturing human embryos states that embryos obtained by IVF can be cultured up to 14 days post-fertilization and/or the formation of a primitive streak, whichever is first, the Australian study said. "The applicability of the '14-day rule' to in vitro models of early development that are not derived by fertilization is not clear," the authors wrote. This led the team to be cautious and only culture the blastoids for up to five days. Thomas Zwaka, a professor in the Department of Stem Cell and Developmental Biology at the Icahn School of Medicine in New York, said the availability of an alternative model will reduce the pressure on researchers to use real human embryos in research "There are still many unsolved mysteries at this stage of early human development, which lays the foundation for almost all processes, organs and, unfortunately, diseases," Zwaka told the Science Media Center Germany. "That's why there is an urgent need for a method like blastoids that opens this door a little wider, even if it's not perfect." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31QbH In humans, a few days after fertilization, the egg forms a structure called the blastocyst.  This structure has an outer cell layer called the trophectoderm  which surrounds an area that houses the inner cell mass (ICM). As the blastocyst develops, the ICM splits in two cell types groups — the epiblast  and hypoblast. The blastocyst then implants into the uterine tissue where gastrulation will eventually happen — this is when epiblast cells pave the way for the development of cells that will form the entire fetus. The trophectoderm goes on to form most of the placenta  and the hypoblast helps to form the yolk sac,  which is needed for early fetal blood supply. Both the US and Australian scientists found that human blastoids emerged after 6–8 days of culture, with a formation efficiency of up to almost 20%. The blastoids had a similar size and shape to the natural blastocysts, as well as a similar total number of cells. They also contained a cavity and an ICM-like cluster. The researchers then looked at how the blastoids developed when implantation into the uterus was mimicked in culture dishes, the report stated. Similarly to blastocysts, when they were grown for four to five days, some attached to the culture dish — and some of these showed signs reminiscent of a pro-amniotic cavity and placental cells. Previously, models of early human development have used human stem cells that were developmentally similar to post-implantation, pre-gastrulation cells, according to the report. But while they could repeat some states of post-implantation human development, sometimes they didn't have lineages associated with the trophectoderm, hypoblast  or both — all of which are essential for the development of a baby. Nicolas Revron, a group leader at the Institute of Molecular Biotechnology in Vienna, said it was essential that the blastoids were able to form the first three cell types of the embryo: the epiblast, trophoblasts and the hypoblast. "There is evidence that there are some cells that resemble these three cell types, but there are also many differences, and other cell types as well," Rivron told the Science Media Center Germany. The studies do have limitations. The development of the blastoids is inefficient and varies depending on the cell lines produced from different donors. The blastoids also contain unidentified cell populations that are not found in natural human blastocysts. Development of the blastoids is also limited in post-implantation stages and the culture and experimentation conditions will be needed to improve post-implantation-stage culturing of human blastoids in vitro up to the equivalent of 14 days in vivo, the report stated. British researcher Ronald Ross found out that mosquitoes transmit the tropical disease malaria. He showed that the Anopheles mosquito carries one-celled parasites that cause malaria. Today, 200 million people a year still catch malaria, and about half a million of them die because of it. But thanks to Ross' findings, researchers were able to develop treatments to fight the disease. Robert Koch discovered the tuberculosis pathogen, the bacterium mycobacterium tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is still a globally widespread infectious disease. Treatment is possible but protracted, even though there are antibiotics for the illness today. There is also a vaccine which protects children, but not adults. French surgeon Alexis Carrel succeeded at transplanting blood vessels and entire organs. He developed a suture technique with which he could stitch torn blood vessels back together. He also discovered how to store organs outside the human body. Today, doctors transplant roughly 100,000 organs every year. Dutch doctor Willem Einthoven developed the electro-cardiogram (EKG) to a point where it could be used in hospitals and doctor's offices. An EKG records the heart's electric activity. The data it provides helps doctors recognize an irregular heart rhythm and other heart diseases. It's a wide-spread method in modern medicine. Austrian physician Karl Landsteiner discovered that mixing the blood of two different people often - but not always - led to clotting. He soon found the cause for that phenomenon: the different blood types A, B and O (which he called C). Later, his colleagues also discovered the blood type AB. Because of these findings, safe blood transfusions became possible. Three Nobel Prizes went to the discoverers and developers of antibiotics, among them Alexander Fleming (1945), who discovered penicillin. Today, antibiotics are still some of the most commonly used drugs and often save lives. New kinds of antibiotics constantly need to be developed, however, as bacteria become resistant to the medicines. The chemical compound DDT kills insects but hardly affects mammals, as Swiss chemist Paul Hermann Müller found out. Following that discovery, DDT became one of the most used insecticides worldwide. But then it turned out that DDT was damaging to the environment, especially to birds, and its use is now frowned upon. But it is still being used is places where mosquitoes are known to carry malaria. German physician Werner Forssmann received the Nobel Prize together with two colleagues for the development of cardiac catheterization. Forssmann conducted the procedure for the first time on himself. It calls for inserting a tube into an artery in the hand, bend of the elbow or the groin, and pushing it up to the heart. When you wanted to see the inside of a human body, there used to be only one way: X-rays. But by now, doctors have superior methods. One of them is computed tomography (CT), which also uses x-rays, but takes detailed pictures of the body's "layers" as if it were cut into slices. The discovery was followed by that of magnetic resonance tomography (MRI), which works with harmless magnetic fields. Thanks to Harald zur Hausen from the German Center for Cancer Research, we know that the human papillomavirus can cause cervical cancer. This knowledge helped the development of vaccines against the virus. Girls and women can now be vaccinated against the viral type of cervical cancer. Robert Edwards developed the in-vitro fertilization. The first baby that was created this way was born in England in 1978. Advancements improved the method's success-rate further. Globally, several million in-vitro babies have been born. We all have natural defenses against tumors in us. We only need to release the natural brakes in the immune system. James P. Allison and Tasuku Honjo have laid the foundation for a cancer treatment in which tumors which have already formed metastases recede. At the end of the therapy, many patients remained cancer-free — a huge breakthrough. William Kaelin, Peter Ratcliffe and Gregg Semenza discovered how cells sense and adapt to the availability of oxygen. When oxygen level change, cells undergo shifts in gene expression. Responses include cell metabolism, tissue remodeling and heart rate. It plays a role at high altitudes and has medical implications from exercising to pregnancy, altitude sickness and wound healing. Author: Brigitte Osterath