Russia wants the majority of its citizens to be vaccinated against the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, by the autumn of 2021. And it appears to be pushing three homegrown vaccines to meet that goal at all costs. All three of those vaccines have been approved prior to completing large-scale phase 3 clinical trials — an internationally recognized scientific standard that aims to ensure the safety and efficacy of vaccines. The country became the first in the world to approve a COVID-19 vaccine — Sputnik V — in early August 2020. It was only then, after approval by Russian authorities, that large-scale clinical trials for the vaccine involving over 40,000 people took place. A vaccine or drug would normally — and perhaps a pandemic is not normal — be released for use on the general public only after phase 3 clinical trials had been conducted, completed and verified by independent researchers. Russia started its vaccination campaign in mid-January, with centers even in department stores, as here During the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been possible for developers to conduct phase 2 and 3 trials in parallel to speed up the process and meet the demands of the global emergency. But even after phase 3, trials do continue: Phase 4 trials are used to test a drug or vaccine on a much wider population over a longer time frame. So, there's still a lot of work to be done with the Russian vaccines. Russia approved its second COVID-19 vaccine, EpiVacCorona, in October 2020 and in February 2021 it approved CoviVac. Neither have gone through phase 3 trials. And there will be more like them. There are reports of about 20 Russian COVID-19 vaccines in development, including Mir-19, which recently completed the first stage of preclinical trials at Russia's Federal Medical Biological Agency (FMBA). The EpiVacCorona vaccine relies on a chemically synthesized antigen — it does not contain the live virus. The antigen is a substance that causes the human immune system to produce antibodies against a virus. According to clinicaltrials.gov, a resource provided by the US National Library of Medicine, EpiVacCorona trials are ongoing, with results expected no sooner than May 2021. Russian COVID-19 vaccine EpiVacCorona relies on a chemically synthesized antigen It has passed phase 1 and phase 2 trials and been approved in Russia. It's not approved for use in any other country, apart from Turkmenistan, according to a report by the state-run Turkmenistan State News Agency (TDH). The vaccine's lack of approval has been highlighted by the Russian Embassy in Germany, where it appears people have been asking whether they can get a Russian vaccine. The embassy says, "No," not until the European Medicines Agency allows it. As of March 1, the World Health Organization (WHO) had yet to receive an Expression of Interest (EOI) from EpiVacCorona's developers, "Vector," to enable WHO experts to evaluate their vaccine. EpiVacCorona can be stored in standard refrigerators. Russian authorities claimed it was 100% effective in very early trials. There is little or no detail on CoviVac via international or verified sources. We know that CoviVac is developed by the Chumakov Centre, a branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Russian COVID-19 vaccine CoviVac is listed as an inactivated vaccine The Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society of the USA lists CoviVac as an inactivated vaccine. But beyond that there is no mention of it at clinicaltrials.gov, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or the WHO's vaccine tracker. To confuse matters, an American developer, Codagenix, is working on a COVID-19 vaccine of its own with a similar name, Covi-Vac (notice the hyphen). Sometimes, Russia's CoviVac is also spelled with a hyphen. Russia's CoviVac is what's known as a whole virus vaccine — it includes the spike proteins on the outside of the viral envelope (its shell, as it were) and its genetic material on the inside. It's quite a common form of vaccine. In the case of CoviVac, the virus has been inactivated so that its genetic material cannot infect cells or replicate but can still trigger an immune response. The Chumakov Center says the vaccine can be stored at temperatures between 2 to 8 degrees Celsius (35-46 degrees Fahrenheit), which would make it suitable for transportation without deep refrigeration, as required for some other vaccines. It has been reported by the Russian TASS news agency that CoviVac may be suited as a "secondary immunization" or booster. It may also be good for people with chronic diseases and older people, as its side effects are said to be less noticeable than those of other vaccines. The Russian researchers say that because CoviVac is based on the whole virus, it will be effective against most variants or mutations. Sputnik V uses two versions of the adenovirus, a common flu-like virus, as vectors — in a sense, transport vehicles — to deliver protection to the body. Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V uses two versions of the adenovirus Vectors are viruses that have been manipulated so that they cannot reproduce or infect the body. They do, however, spark an immune response. The first and second Sputnik V jabs also use different vectors, and that, say the scientists, makes the vaccine more effective over a long period of time. Since its release, Sputnik V has undergone at least six phase 3 trials in Russia, India, Venezuela, Belarus and the United Arab Emirates, and has been approved, at least for emergency use, in more than 40 countries, excluding the USA and European Union (although Hungary, an EU member, has approved the vaccine). It's said to be over 90% effective. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pPXk Outside of Russia, experts remain cautious about the three vaccines in the absence of independently verified or peer-reviewed studies. The makers of EpiVacCorona have reportedly submitted study data from their phase 1 and phase 2 trials for publication by "foreign scientific journals." But there is still the question of those missing phase 3 trials. And experts in Germany and Europe as a whole are declining to comment for now. In an email to DW, a spokesperson at Germany's Federal Institute for Vaccines and Biomedicines, the Paul Ehrlich Institute (PEI), said the institute's experts would not comment before they had had a chance to study any "meaningful" data. "Speculations are impossible," they said, adding that we should ask the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The EMA is responsible to approving drugs and vaccines in the European Union, and it told us to ask the PEI. TASS reports that as of March 1, at least 7,885,000 sets of the Sputnik V vaccine and 45,000 doses of EpiVacCorona had been "released into civilian circulation" in a population of about 144 million. By May, Russia wants to have produced 50 million doses of its vaccines. From Sweden to Cyprus, Lithuania to Italy, the push to get people their first shots is now under way, 11 months after the first cases were reported in Europe. EU leaders have dubbed the launch of the drive "V-Day," a moment of unity in a pandemic that has killed more than 1.7 million people worldwide. Edith Kwoizalla, aged 101, was one of the first Germans to be vaccinated. She took the first of two doses at a care home in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt on Saturday, a day before the official launch. German Health Minister Jens Spahn said he expected 1.3 million doses to be delivered by the end of the year, with double that number by the end of January. The country is largely relying on mobile teams to distribute the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine, such as here at a care home in Grossräschen, in Germany's eastern Brandenburg state. Most of the more than 400 planned vaccination centers will not be up and running until the next few days. The vaccine, developed partly by a German firm, has been snapped up by governments around the world. BioNTech has "scientific confidence" that its coronavirus vaccine will also work on the new variant detected in the UK, company CEO Ugur Sahin told DW. The proteins on the mutated form of the virus were 99% the same as the prevailing virus, he said. Hungary began vaccinating health care workers on Saturday, a day ahead of the EU's planned start date. Hungary has recorded over 316,000 cases and more than 9,000 deaths since the start of the pandemic. A Warsaw paramedic was one of the first people to receive the vaccine in Poland on Sunday. The first batch of 10,000 doses was transported from Pfizer's facility in Belgium to a warehouse in central Poland a day earlier. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki called the launch "a great step in fighting the epidemic." EU leaders and scientists have gone to great lengths to insist the vaccine is safe. In the Czech Republic, Prime Minister Andrej Babis (seen here) was at the head of the line for his vaccination on Sunday. In Vienna, three women and two men over the age of 80 got the vaccine in the presence of Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. Sweden, which has received praise and criticism for its looser handling of the pandemic, is expecting an initial batch of 10,000 shots, along with Norway. Denmark expects to have enough shots to initially vaccinate 40,000 people in care homes, followed by health care staff and those people with a high risk of illness. Iceland will receive 10,000 doses early in January. An 84-year-old man became the first patient to receive the coronavirus vaccine in Cyprus. While Europe has some of the best-resourced health care systems in the world, the sheer scale of the effort means some countries are calling on retired medics to help. Other countries have loosened rules for who is allowed to give the injections. A health care worker at the Hospital Favoriten in Vienna was one of the first in line to receive the vaccine. Austria is rolling the vaccine out through a three-stage program, starting with health care workers and people over the age of 65. Austria has recorded over 350,000 cases and more than 5,800 deaths since the start of the pandemic. Mauricette, a 78-year-old French woman, was the first person to receive a dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine at the Rene-Muret hospital in Sevran, on the outskirts of Paris. France is aiming to vaccinate the first million people by the end of February. The country has been one of the hardest hit in Europe, with over 2.6 million recorded cases and nearly 63,000 deaths. Italy began distributing the first batch of 10,000 shots on Sunday at the Niguarda hospital in Milan (seen here). In Rome, a 29-year-old nurse was the first to receive the jab at Rome's Lazzaro Spallanzani National Institute for Infectious Diseases. Health workers were first in line, with those over 80 to follow. The first phase of Portugal's vaccine rollout aims to inoculate 10% of the population, with front-line workers and those over 50 with preexisting conditions taking priority. Here, a medical worker receives the vaccine at Santa Maria hospital in Lisbon. Spain is set to receive 350,000 doses from Pfizer-BioNTech per week, with a total of nearly 4.6 million to be delivered over the next three months. The government has said it aims to vaccinate between 15 million and 20 million people in the first half of 2021. Here, a 72-year-old receives the first injection at the Vallecas nursing home in Madrid.  