In the hilly border region between Thailand and Myanmar, members of the ethnic Karen group have been fighting against the Burmese army for decades. Since the coup in Myanmar eight weeks ago and the brutal clampdown on protests, the territory has once again become a refuge for other opponents of the military regime. According to Padoh Saw Taw Nee, the head of the foreign affairs department of the Karen National Union, which is providing them with food and shelter, there are more than 2,000 refugees now. "Most of them are young people," he told DW. "There are a few doctors; the others are journalists, lawyers, lawmakers and also people who have abandoned the police and military." One refugee who left Yangon two weeks ago told DW that he had fled when it became "too risky. "I was scared of being kidnapped by soldiers every night," he said. He added that the resistance movement could "reorganize" in this region as there is better access to the internet through Thai networks, making online communication possible again. The army has been blocking the internet in Myanmar to prevent protesters from organizing online. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qxe8 After the people's uprising of 1988, thousands of protesters fled to the Karen hills. "At the time, the army launched a massive offensive and we lost a large part of our territory," Taw Nee said. "Now, history is repeating itself." He said troops from Myanmar had tried to get into a camp where members of the "civil disobedience movement" were staying. The rebel army had managed to prevent 200 soldiers and eight trucks from entering, but then five hours later another 200 soldiers turned up and demanded entry. "We made it clear to them that there would be a battle if they came in," he said. He added that the soldiers left without armed conflict. "We are preparing for the worst," he said. "We will launch negotiations and meet the Thai authorities, the UN Refugee Agency and the ICRC because the KNU will not be able cope on its own for very long." In Thailand, preparations are underway for an influx of refugees from Myanmar. At the Tao Tahn temple in Sangkhlaburi, which is about 300 kilometers (180 miles) northwest of the capital, Bangkok, there are stacks of plastic plates and cutlery piling up in the prayer room. "We are ready to take in about 760 refugees," said the 54-year-old head monk, Chatchai, who has done this before and is himself of Karen descent. "We've taken in many Karen people in the past who've now gone back to their villages." "The militias' defense belt could easily burst and then people will be forced into Thailand," he said. Thailand's government is doing everything it can to prevent his happening. The country's 2,000-kilometer western border is currently blocked because of the coronavirus pandemic anyway and has been patrolled more intensively since the coup in Myanmar. There is more and more barbed wire and the penalties for human smuggling have been increased. "It is not normal how many people are crossing the border," said Lieutenant Itthipon, from the Sangkhkaburi police station in the province of Kanchanaburi. Phak Poom, an official in the border village of Ban Kao in the same province, confirmed this: "The political situation has meant that there are more people coming from Myanmar. The border is too long to be controlled seamlessly. We can only arrest people randomly or if we get a tip." Border guards have been capturing people almost daily, people who are exhausted and hungry and have sometimes waited in vain for traffickers. Hundreds have been arrested, including dozens from the Rohingya ethnic group. "We sent almost all of them back to Myanmar," Itthipon told DW. The government has justified its measures as a necessary pandemic measure. The country is not a signatory to the 1951 refugee convention, and its asylum law refers to "illegal foreigners" who can be arrested and deported at any time. "Thai authorities should stop pushing back people who are fleeing Myanmar," Bill Frelick, the refugee and migrant rights director at Human Rights Watch, said in a recent statement. "The Thai government should immediately allow all asylum seekers fleeing the violent crackdown in Myanmar access to desperately needed protection." "I have been living in Thailand for 30 years and I'm still not able to move freely," Moe said At the beginning of March, the Thai authorities announced to the media that football stadiums, schools and other sites had been converted to welcome refugees from Myanmar. The army is also erecting three temporary shelters in the southern provinces of Chumphon and Ranong. Major General Santi Sakuntak said they would be sent back after the situation returned to "normal" and that no permanent camps would be constructed. There are a number of camps on the western border that have been "temporary" for over three decades now, with the first refugee arriving from Myanmar in 1984. According to the UN, about 92,000 people, mainly Karen, now live in these camps, which are surrounded by rusty barbed wire fences and are under permanent military surveillance. The internees have very few prospects. Nobody knows exactly how many people are living in countless unofficial settlements in the hills and jungle on the Thai side of the border. One of them is Moe, a Karen monk who fled the military dictatorship after the 1988 uprising, who runs a small village store. "I have been living in Thailand for 30 years and I'm still not able to move freely," he said. He said he had worked for a few years in a Bangkok fabric factory before coming back to the border region. "I don't have to worry about anything here," he said. "People know me and about half of the inhabitants don't have any papers. I do wish that I could visit my son and my friends in Bangkok one day without being scared of being arrested." For the moment, it is unlikely that Thailand will change its asylum policies. The military government, which took power in a coup in 2014, has said that it would, but there has been no action so far. Ei Myat Noe Khin works for the Tech Accountability Network and was previously the digital rights program manager at the ICT hub Phandeeyar. She has a bachelor’s degree in computer science from Yangon’s University of Computer Studies. She has also advised civil society organizations on using technology to increase their impact and managed hackathons to bring tech and civil society sectors together. Zaw Myo Min is currently conducting research on digital culture and promoting digital and media literacy awareness among the public. His goal is to make the digital sphere safer and maximize the impact of digital connectivity in Myanmar. Helani Galpaya is the CEO of LIRNEasia, a pro-poor, pro-market thinktank working across the emerging Asia-Pacific. She researches issues such as Internet policy, barriers to digital access, and human rights online. Galpaya serves on several boards, including the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Data and the Multi-stakeholder Advisory Group of the UN Internet Governance Forum. Aung Khant is one of the founders of Athan (“Voice”), founded by students in January 2018. As a former journalist, he is responsible for Athan’s training programs and documents violations of freedom of expression in the country. In December 2018, Athan’s executive director was the first winner from Myanmar of the Dutch foreign ministry’s Human Rights Tulip Award. Aung Kaung Myat is the author of the Myochit Monitor, a blog that monitors the online activities of Buddhist nationalists, trolls and fake accounts on Facebook in Myanmar. He is also studying journalism and history at the University of Hong Kong. He is especially interested in online behavior and the spread of disinformation. Phyu Phyu Thi is a co-founder and the research and development manager of MIDO, an organization that promotes digital rights and media and information literacy. She holds a master’s degree in sustainable development from Chiang Mai University in Thailand and a bachelor’s degree from Yangon University. Her interests include technology and development, social media and information dissemination. Hsan Winn Hlaing assists Phandeeyar, an ICT hub, in spearheading the use of technology to accelerate change and development in Myanmar. Trained in business development and entrepreneurship, he is responsible for creating opportunities for Phandeeyar to grow and increase its impact. Chris Peken is a Yangon-based advisor and capacity builder at the Myanmar Journalism Institute and Denmark’s International Media Support. He is involved in journalism training and the new community radio sector in Myanmar. In his native Australia, he managed newspapers and worked as a radio announcer and program manager. Soe Lin Htoot is active in the area of tech for social change. He founded Myanma Fifth Estate, a civic tech, communications for development and democracy startup. He is also the co-founder of Open Hluttaw, a platform that enables citizen engagement with parliamentarians, and was formerly with the International Foundation for Electoral Systems in Myanmar. Oliver Spencer is an advisor to Free Expression Myanmar, a human rights organization which campaigns for legal reform, defends victims of violations, and promotes adherence to international standards. Trained in development and human rights law in his native UK, he formerly headed the Asia office at Article 19, an organization that promotes freedom of expression and information around the world. Thomas Feichter is the managing director of Inspiral Creative, a Yangon-based web development agency that has designed and maintained the websites of some of Myanmar’s most important media outlets, including The Myanmar Times, Frontier, Eleven and MRTV. He has a master’s degree in telematics from the Graz University of Technology. Author: Kyle James This article has been translated from German.