North Rhine Westphalia (NRW) State Premier Armin Laschet called for a harder lockdown on Monday as Germany struggles to contain a third wave of the coronavirus. However, Laschet's request has been met with skepticism from fellow German lawmakers. The chairman of Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) and one of her potential successor as chancellor said that Germany needed harder lockdown measures to stem a rise in cases of COVID-19. Last year brick-and-mortar pet supplies retailers had an overall turnover of €4.5 billion ($5.3 billion) for food and things like official pet toys and beds. It was a 4.3% increase over 2019. Online sales came in at around €820 million. Add in wild bird feed, and the industry brought in nearly €5.5 billion during the pandemic year, according to data released by IVH, a pet supply industrial group. Not surprisingly, man's best friend is no stranger in Germany. With the sales and prices of dogs up in the past year, the country is now home to over 10 million dogs. During the pandemic these dogs were not a luxury but often a companion and a shield against loneliness. Who wouldn't spend a little more — or splurge on gourmet food or a steak — on a beloved family member? But in Germany, cats are king. Currently there are 15.7 million of them, a quarter of all house pets. Though felines are known for being easy to care for, German fashion legend Karl Lagerfeld's cat Choupette had a life of luxury. Though they lived in France, he was doing what many of his countrymen do. The biggest increase last year was spending for cat snacks and milk. It was up 9.4%. The country added around a million new pets in the past year. Now 47% of households have some sort of pet but they are not all just cats and dogs. There are 5 million small animals like rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters and mice. On top of that there are 3.5 million birds, 1.8 million aquariums and around 1.3 million terrariums for lizards and turtles. Caring for all these animals is big business. While most people in Germany are required to socially distance, house pets can visit their friends while out walking. Chance encounters like this may be the reason that veterinarians, groomers and dog walkers have been kept busy. These costs and the original purchase of the pets are not in the study. So the real figure for animal spending is much higher than the report's €5 billion. The Germans may love their pets. Yet, by international standards they are laggards. When looking at pet care spending per person in 2019, Germany was in fifth place, according to research done by "The Economist." Ahead of it was Switzerland, France and the UK. In the number one spot was the US, which left everyone in the dust and spent more than double what the Germans shelled out. Though the lion's share of spending goes to pet food, other things are becoming must-haves. Forget ordinary carrying cases, rich pet owners are reaching for Tiffany leashes and Prada carry bags. Others are shopping for Versace food bowls, sweaters from Ralph Lauren or puffy vests by Moncler to keep their pets warm. And that doesn't include all the funny costumes often posted on Instagram. Since many people are working from home, it is good news for pets but bad news for pet day care businesses. Yet in general, the pet business has been a winner of coronavirus pandemic lockdowns. A lot is spent in grocery stores or specialty pet shops, but online shopping for pet supplies is growing. Last year, online spending was at least €820 million, a 16% increase over the previous year. While the prices of some animals have gone through the roof recently, many fear criminals are increasingly dealing with animals transporting them from dodgy breeding farms throughout Europe. Others are worried that when the pandemic is over and things go back to normal, owners won't have the time or just no longer want their two or four-legged companions anymore. Animal shelters fear the worst. Author: Timothy Rooks Speaking at a vaccination center in Aachen, Lasschet said Germany must create a lockdown that bridges the time until immunizations can make a difference. "We need a bridge lockdown. We have to build a bridge to the point in time when a lot of people are vaccinated." "We are very close to the goal," he continued. "For the last meters we need an extra effort and that's what I’m calling for today." Laschet is asking for fewer private contacts, which could require curfews at night, and for more people to work from home. He said that a meeting planned for April 12 among the premiers of Germany's 16 states and the federal government should take place this week instead. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rZ5u But Thuringia State Premier Bodo Ramelow (The Left party) expressed doubt over his counterpart's strategy. "We can meet at any time, but there must be something on the table first that we can actually decide on together and, above all, implement it," he told Der Spiegel. "The current speeches are again patchwork and hectic." "I think a lot of what Mr Laschet says is unclear," said Berlin State Premier Michael Müller (SPD). "A bridge lockdown is temporary with what measures? I don't think Mr Laschet has thought things through." The co-chairwoman of The Left party, Janine Wissler, also criticized Laschet. "It is irresponsible that the numbers have risen so high that so many people have fallen ill and the intensive care units are full," she told Der Spiegel. "Whether his proposals are based on insight or because he has lost the power struggle against the chancellor, remains be seen. In any case, this crisis management makes one become fearful and anxious." Germany, despite months of restrictions, has seen a rise in coronavirus infections as it lags behind Britain, Israel and the United States in its vaccination pace. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rWib   jsi/aw (dpa, Reuters)