­­­­­­­­At least 7.3 million people are expected to vote in Chad's presidential election on Sunday. Ten candidates appear on the ballot paper. However, three of them have withdrawn from the race, citing intimidation and an "already rigged election" in favor of President Marshal Idriss Deby Itno. Deby came to power in the oil-rich African nation in 1990 through a military coup that removed Hissene Habre from office. He has maintained his grip on power since then, winning all five times he ran for office. "Most of the young people amongst you were not born when I came to power," Deby told cheering supporters at a campaign rally in the capital, N'Djamena, on Tuesday. Chad, a country in central Africa, is often equated with violence and instability. It remains one of the poorest countries in the world - despite huge oil deposits. But the commodities boom also hides the view of its almost unknown wealth. A journey of discovery in pictures. Time seems to stand still on the Ennedi Plateau, a sandstone desert in the northeast of the country. Here, people and animals live their lives in harmony with the natural rhythms of days and years. There’s no rush, no counting of minutes. Time does pass but at a different speed. Kalait is the last trading post before the great desert to the north. Only sand and dust are seen here. A scorching sun, aridity and temperatures above 50 ° are not uncommon around here. Living in this environment is unimaginable. Nevertheless, there are living creatures who defy the harsh conditions of the desert. Guelta d'Archei is probably the Sahara’s most famous watering hole. It lies in the middle of the rocky Ennedi Plateau. To reach this place one needs a camel or jeep. This natural source of water is the basis of life for plants, animals and humans. The Guelta d'Archei bears witness to the past, to a time when the area was once greener and home to the Nile crocodiles. Today only a handful remain. Millions of animals such as cattle, camels, goats and sheep make up a large part of the country's inhabitants. For many Chadians, cattle means wealth and a safe investment which can be sold whenever necessary. The animals can be seen at water points, wells, roads and markets. Rice is one of the major grains grown in the fertile plains of the river Logone in southern Chad. Logone is the second largest river in the country. Every year it provides the Chadian population with arable land, ensuring the nutrition of whole towns and villages. Every year, 150,000 tones of rice are sown and harvested by hand from this area alone. Chad is dependent on oil. But the most important export commodity is cotton. The state enterprise 'Coton Tchad' buys handpicked balls, cleans them and then exports the cotton. Many villages in the south of the country have brought some prosperity and independence to their households through the cultivation of cotton that is practiced on a monoculture basis. Gaoui is a village located ten kilometers northeast of the capital N'Djamena. Human beings and nature seem to be one here. Traditions and shared ethnic and linguistic roots hold the villages together – so strongly that even former residents help make their village a better place for future generations. Under the scorching sun, farmers work near the eastern city of Biltine. Most own one or two acres of fields. From sowing and harvesting, to drying and threshing - everything is done by hand. Some produce, such as peanuts, is cultivated by women. At the end of the rainy season everybody joins in to harvest the crops. Almost everything is traded in Abeche: millet, maize, rice, cassava, beans, bananas, papayas - depending on the season. The town, which borders Sudan, is traditionally one of the most important commercial hubs of the Sahel. Traders come here to sell their cattle, spices, oil, milk and baskets. Sometimes there are also modern imported goods. At the end of market day it's time to celebrate. The average life expectancy of the Chadian population is 48 years. The older the person, the greater the respect from the community. Traditionally they act as judges and pass on their valuable experience, their stories and values. Their faces convey dignity and wisdom. The average age of the population is 16.3 years. Most Chadians regard children as their greatest wealth. They exist only in the plural, there are no individual children. At Gagal in the southeast of Chad, they form the majority of the population. Chad’s young people represent tremendous potential for new ideas and the future. Author: Albrecht Harder/im - Editor: Susan Houlton Critics describe Deby as an autocrat. Many have accused him of turning Chad into his backyard. Deby has ruled over a profoundly fragmented nation, with multiple ethnic groups and clans vying for power. Unlike his predecessors, Deby has remained in power for over 30 years, thanks mainly to his political cunning and prowess as a tactician. Last year Deby, an experienced military man, was awarded the rank of marshal, the highest accolade. Deby's critics accuse him of using oil revenues to build patronage networks and a crackdown on dissent. "Frequent divisions of political actors have also allowed Deby to perpetuate his reign in the division, intoxication and manipulation," the opposition politician Yaya Dillo Djerou told DW. Djerou accused Deby of using state revenues to pay off his confidants, and using the anti-militant war in the Sahel to get support from Western countries. "All this has enabled Deby to quell all dissenting voices, including assassinations of credible actors," Djerou said. On February 28, 2021, Djerou's home in N'Djamena was raided by government forces, and five of his relatives, including his mother and son, were killed. He had planned on challenging Deby in Sunday's vote. Now he is in hiding. Chad's security forces have "ruthlessly cracked down on protesters and the political opposition in the lead-up to the Sunday presidential election," according to Human Rights Watch. "As many Chadians are bravely taking to the streets to call for change and respect for their basic rights peacefully, Chad's authorities have responded by crushing dissent and hope of a fair or credible election," Ida Sawyer, deputy Africa director at the rights organization, said in a statement. Alain Didah Kemba, national coordinator for the NGO Citoyez le Temps, has been organizing the protests in N'Djamena to demand that the authorities respect civil liberties. Kemba was arrested four times in as many years and jailed for staging what the government called "illegal assembly." "We are dealing with a corrupt regime, and that has shown terrible governance," Kemba told DW. Several hundred young people and opposition supporters are behind bars, according to the opposition and human rights groups. 'Overstaying' justified Deby says he still has a lot to offer to Chad. He's vowed to stabilize nation and build the economy. Justifying Deby's decades in power, presidential spokesman Brah Mahamat told DW that his boss is a visionary man who has turned around the country's misfortune and built the education sector. "President Idriss Deby Itno has covered 30 years of experience, 30 years of sacrifice for his country," Mahamat said. "The president has exploited Chad's oil to enable the country to build new infrastructure," he added. This weekend's election will see seven people running for the presidency, but government critics say real opposition members have been barred from running for office. The opposition candidate Succes Masra's chances of facing Deby were dashed after a 2018 revision to the constitution to prevent candidates younger than 40 from running for office. Masra is only 38. "He doesn't want me to run for office," Masra told DW. "That's why he changed the minimum age required." Supporters such as Desire Mbairamadji still see Deby as capable of moving the country forward. "He is the only Chadian president who has built universities in the provinces," Mbairamadji said, adding that Deby is the man who can tackle terrorthreats faced by the country and the Sahel region. The nation produces 1.5 billion barrels of oil annually, making it one of Africa's largest oil reserve holders. The oil revenues contribute 60% to Chad's national budget. Chad's population is one of the world's poorest, and, according to the World Bank, about 40% of children younger than 5 are at risk of stunted growth. Young people say they can't find jobs. Adissou Dibam has a master's degree in political science, but he could not get a job in the past 10 years. "This about death and life. We can't live without work," Dibam said. Sunday's vote is expected to go ahead without the participation of key opposition figures. And the incumbent president is set to extend his 30-year grip on power.  