Fresh one-to-one talks between the heads of Germany's conservative alliance on who should lead the CDU/CSU parties into the next election ended without an agreement, German newspaper Die Welt reported on Saturday. The parties had set a deadline of the end of this week to decide who should head up their campaign as chancellor candidate at the September 26 national election. Despite the talks which ran late into the night, the head of the CDU Armin Laschet and the chairman of its Bavarian sister party, Markus Söder of the CSU, refused to let go of their hopes to run as Chancellor Angela Merkel's successor, according to the newspaper. The alliance is seeking a fifth consecutive term in power. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ru8h A power struggle broke out in the CDU/CSU alliance after the pair both announced they were seeking the candidacy for the position of chancellor on behalf of the conservative bloc that currently leads the ruling coalition. The CDU chose Laschet as its new party chair in January — the nominee normally goes on to stand as chancellor candidate. On Monday, he received a further boost with the backing of regional CDU factions. However, within hours, the CSU declared unanimously that it would back its leader. Söder currently enjoys more popularity than Laschet among the German population. Laschet’s popularity fell after the CDU's poor regional election results amid general dissatisfaction with the government's response to the coronavirus pandemic. Meanwhile, Friedrich Merz, who failed to secure the alliance's candidacy called on Saturday for a quick decision on who is to lead the bloc into the federal election. "Settle it, Markus Söder and Armin Laschet. This country needs leadership. And the CDU and CSU are needed as the politically leading force of this country," he said at a campaign event. Merz, who failed to become CDU party leader in January, is now standing for election as a lawmaker.  CDU chairman Armin Laschet, a staunch supporter of Angela Merkel, heads Germany's most populous state. Conservatives routinely underestimated the jovial 60-year-old, famous for his belief in integration and compromise. But recently, his liberal non-interventionist instincts have led to him eating his words more than once during the coronavirus crisis. The bookmakers' favorite: Bavaria's 54-year-old state premier from the CDU's more conservative Bavarian sister party, the CSU, has profited in opinion polls from his tough line in the fight against the coronavirus. "Bavaria is strong. Bavaria will grow. Bavaria is solid. Bavaria is safe... and it will stay that way," the former journalist said at the beginning of his tenure in 2018. At the age of 40, Annalena Baerbock has been a Green Party co-chair since 2018. A jurist with a degree in public international law from the London School of Economics, her supporters see her as a safe pair of hands with a better grasp of detail than Habeck. Her opponents point to her lack of governing or ministerial experience and her occasional gaffes in interviews. 51-year-old Robert Habeck, an enthused and passionate speaker, can match the tone and energy of the climate movement in a way many German politicians cannot. But like so many with the gift of the gab, his speeches tend to meander off-topic. Habeck has a Ph.D. in philosophy and was a novelist and children’s author before entering politics almost 20 years ago. Plumbing new depths with each election, the SPD decided to run a realist rather than a radical as their top candidate in 2021. Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, a former mayor of Hamburg, and Merkel's deputy in the grand coalition, is seen as dry and technocratic. Many in his party say the 62-year-old is unlikely to energize party activists and win their hearts. Author: Mark Hallam, Rina Goldenberg This is not the first time that the CDU and CSU were split over who should be their candidate. In 1980, CSU leader Franz-Josef Strauss was nominated ahead of CDU candidate Ernst Albrecht and his then unpopular party leader Helmut Kohl. In 2002, CDU leader Angela Merkel stepped back to allow Bavarian rival Edmund Stoiber to run. The CDU is typically the dominating force in the conservative alliance. However, the CSU candidate had more popularity in both cases, and was widely seen as a more voter-friendly option. But they both failed to win the chancellery. The current German government, under Merkel, is a grand centrist coalition between the CDU/CSU alliance and the center-left Social Democrats (SPD). While you're here: Every Tuesday, DW editors round up what is happening in German politics and society, with an eye toward understanding this year’s elections and beyond. You can sign up here for the weekly email newsletter Berlin Briefing, to stay on top of developments as Germany enters the post-Merkel era. 