Jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny on Monday said his health was further deteriorating but added that he would continue a hunger strike in demand of proper medical care at his prison camp. Navalny launched a hunger strike last Wednesday after complaining that the prison doctor would only give him painkillers as a treatment for severe back pain and numbness in his legs. The 44-year-old said Monday that he was suffering from fever and heavy cough. "I am quoting the official data from today's temperature measurement: 'Navalny A.A., strong cough, temperature 38.1 (degrees Celsius/ 100.6 degrees Fahrenheit)'," Navalny wrote on his Instagram on Monday. "P.S. I am continuing my hunger strike, of course." The opposition politician also said three people from his ward had been hospitalized with tuberculosis, going on to joke darkly that catching the disease might give him some relief from his other ailments. "If I have tuberculosis, then maybe it'll chase out the pain in my back and numbness in my legs. That'd be nice," he wrote. The Izvestia newspaper, a pro-Kremlin daily, reported on Monday that Navalny had been transferred to a medical ward for observation, with symptoms of a respiratory illness," notably a high fever." All necessary tests were being carried out, including a coronavirus test, the paper said citing the prison services. Izvestia did not mention where the medical ward was, but according to one of Navalny's lawyers, it appeared to be within the IK-2 corrective penal colony where he was being held, the TV Rain outlet reported. The lawyer-turned-political campaigner has been among the most prominent figures of Russia's opposition to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny came to prominence in 2008, when his blog exposing malpractice in Russian politics and among the country's major state-owned companies came to public attention. Revelations published on his blog even led to resignations, a rarity in Russian politics. In 2011 Navalny was arrested for the first time. He ended up spending 15 days in prison for his role at a rally outside the State Duma in Moscow. A recent parliamentary election victory for Putin's United Russia had been marred by instances of ballot stuffing, reported by demonstrators on social media. Upon his release, Navalny pledged to continue the protest movement. After being reelected president in 2012, Putin ordered Russia's Investigative Committee to launch a criminal inquiry into Navalny's past. The following year the campaigner was charged and sentenced again, this time for five years, for alleged embezzlement in the city of Kirov. However, he was released the following day pending affirmation from a higher court. The sentence was later suspended. Despite being embroiled in legal troubles, Navalny was allowed to run in the 2013 Moscow mayoral election. A second-place finish behind Putin ally Sergei Sobyanin was seen as an overwhelming success and galvanized the Russian opposition movement. His anti-Kremlin rhetoric led Navalny to be banned from appearing on Russian state-owned television. That forced him to deliver his political message over social media and his blog. His talent for public speaking, punchy use of language and humorous mockery of Putin and his loyalists mobilized a legion of young followers. In December 2016, the opposition leader announced the formal start of his campaign to run for the Russian presidency in March 2018. However, repeated accusations of corruption, which his supporters say are politically motivated, ultimately barred him from running for public office. In 2016 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia had violated Navalny's right to a fair trial in the Kirov case. Although Russia's Supreme Court overturned the five-year sentence, the verdict was sent back to the Kirov court. In 2017, this court again handed Navalny a suspended five-year sentence. In February 2017, anti-corruption rallies across dozens of Russian cities led to the arrests of over 1,000 demonstrators, including Navalny. The protests, believed to have been the largest in the Russian capital since 2012, were spurred by a report published by Navalny linking Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to a property empire valued at billions of euros. Navalny was released 15 days later. Navalny was assaulted and hospitalized in April 2017 after being hit in the eye with a chemical green dye. The attack permanently damaged his right cornea. Navalny accused Russian authorities of stopping him from seeking medical treatment abroad due to the embezzlement conviction against him. He was eventually permitted by the Kremlin human rights council to travel to Spain for eye surgery. In 2018, Navalny was jailed for 30 days. After his release in September, he faced another 20-day stint. In April 2019, the European Court of Human Rights ruled Russia had violated Navalny's rights by holding him under house arrest for most of 2014 during the Kirov embezzlement case. In July 2019, only weeks after being released from a 10-day jail sentence, Navalny was again jailed for 30 days for violating Russia's strict protest laws. The opposition leader accused Russia of poisoning him with an allergic agent while in jail. Using YouTube and social media, Navalny had amassed a following of millions by late December 2019. Then police raided his Anti-Corruption Foundation headquarters (above), detaining him in the process. His staff said officials wanted to confiscate their tech equipment. Just a few months later, in March, Navalny reported that his bank accounts and those of his family members had been frozen. On August 20, Navalny's spokesperson announced the activist became violently ill during a flight from Siberia to Moscow. The plane made an emergency landing, and Navalny was rushed to a hospital in Russia's Omsk and later evacuated to Berlin's Charite clinic (above). Doctors said he was in a coma. Navalny's associates claimed he had been poisoned and pointed to previous attacks on the activist. Navalny was taken out of the coma less than three weeks later and was said to be responsive. Not long afterwards, he was posting on Instagram, saying he was slowly regaining strength following weeks of only being "technically alive." The German government said labs in France and Sweden both confirmed that Navalny had been poisoned with the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok. Months later, Navalny released the recording of a phone call he made to a man he said was a member of Russia's Federal Security Service, whose headquarters is pictured above. The alleged agent said he was not directly involved in poisoning Navalny, but deeply involved with efforts to clean up any traces of Novichok. Moscow dismissed the recording as fake. Navalny had promised to return to Russia and he did so, despite warnings that he would be arrested. He was taken into police custody shortly after arriving in Moscow. The dissident, seen here at a passport control point, had said he was "not afraid of anything." He was sentenced to 30 days in prison at a swiftly convened trial the following day. Navalny was ordered to spend two years and eight months in a penal colony for violating terms of his probation while recovering in Germany from his poisoning. He dismissed the proceedings an attempt by the Kremlin to scare Russians into submission. Navalny supporters took to the streets soon after the prison sentence was announced. Navalny's aides called for a rally in Moscow's Manezhnaya Square, which was blocked off by riot police. Author: David Martin Navalny, a prominent critic of President Vladimir Putin, is currently serving a two-and-half-year sentence on fraud charges. He is being held in a penal colony some 100 km (60 miles) east of Moscow, which is known as one of Russia's harshest prisons. "I am surprised that there is no Ebola virus here," Navalny said on Monday. He recently filed two complaints against prison authorities saying he was being woken up eight times a night by guards who would announce to a recording camera that he was still in his cell. Prison authorities have denied sleep deprivation and said previously that Navalny's condition was satisfactory. The IK-2 corrective penal colony outside Moscow has been described as one of Russia's harshest prisons. Amnesty International's secretary-general, Agnes Callamard has appealed to Putin seeking his immediate release. "There is a real prospect that #Russia is subjecting him to a slow death. He must be granted immediate access to a medical doctor he trusts and he must be freed," she said on Twitter. The Alliance of Doctors, a medical trade union headed by Navalny's personal doctor and ally Anastasia Vasilyeva, said it would hold a protest outside the prison from Tuesday, demanding he receives proper medical treatment. "We are going there to understand what the hell is going on at this terrible colony," Vasilyeva wrote on Twitter. Navalny was arrested on his return to Russia after spending months in Germany recovering from poisoning last summer. He blames the Kremlin, particularly a "hit squad" of the FSB domestic intelligence service under Putin's command, for the attempt on his life. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rDDD adi/aw (AFP, Reuters) 