The United Nations Security Council on Thursday strongly condemned the death of hundreds of civilians and the use of violence against protesters in Myanmar following a military coup. "Members of the Security Council expressed deep concern at the rapidly deteriorating situation and strongly condemned the use of violence against peaceful protesters and the deaths of hundreds of civilians, including women and children," read the statement, initiated by the UK. The final statement was milder than the original draft, which included a "readiness to consider further steps," a reference to the possibility of international sanctions against Myanmar. However, after two days of tough negotiations, China blocked the use of strong language. A protester wearing a gas mask sits on a blocked road in Yangon on Tuesday, March 2. Police in Yangon fired tear gas on Monday at crowds who returned to the streets to protest last month's coup. Protesters wearing safety helmets shout slogans and display images of deposed Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi during an anti-coup protest behind a barrier on a blocked road in Yangon, on Tuesday, March 2. Demonstrators took to the streets as Southeast Asian foreign ministers prepared to meet to discuss the crisis. This scene, also from Tuesday, shows demonstrators moving away from a cloud of tear gas in Mandalay. Protesters across the country wore hard hats and makeshift shields, and gathered behind barricades while chanting and sporting the three-finger salute. This three-fingered salute has become a symbol of the protests in Myanmar. Originally featured in the "Hunger Games" books and TV series, it was first adopted by medical staff protesting the coup. There were no reports of any injuries in Yangon on Tuesday, but witnesses claimed that several people were injured in the northwestern town of Kale when police fired live ammunition to disperse a crowd. Protesters check a police truck's movement during an anti-coup protest on a blocked road in Mandalay on Tuesday, March 2. Protesters also marched through the streets of Dawei, a small city in southeastern Myanmar that has seen almost daily large protests against military rule. People offer prayers next to the coffin of a woman whose family said was killed by the military on Sunday, during her funeral service in Mandalay on Monday, March 1. At least 18 people were killed by security forces on Sunday, according to the UN. A protester throws part of a banana towards police during a protest in Yangon on Tuesday, March 2. Hundreds gathered in the Hledan area of Yangon, where a day earlier police had repeatedly used tear gas canisters. A mourner attends Tuesday's funeral of Nyi Nyi Aung Htet Naing, who died from a gunshot wound while attending a demonstration in Yangon. Demonstrators have continued to take to the streets across Myanmar despite seeing the bloodiest weekend since February's coup. Author: Leah Carter Myanmar's military junta has been facing daily protests since ousting the democratically elected government and civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi on February 1. The military responded with a brutal clampdown that has left hundreds of civilians dead. While Western nations have strongly condemned the military action, China responded to the coup with caution and cited the importance of stability. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rW2c During the closed session of the Security Council on Wednesday, the UN special envoy for the country warned that Myanmar might face a civil war "at an unprecedented scale." "If we wait only for when they are ready to talk, the ground situation will only worsen. A bloodbath is imminent," Christine Schraner Burgener told the international body. see/sri (AP, AFP)  