A North Korean website reported on Tuesday that the country will not join in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics due to concerns about the coronavirus pandemic. According to a website run by the Sports Ministry, officials "decided not to participate in the 32nd Olympic Games in order to protect players from the world public health crisis caused by COVID-19." The decision was made during a meeting on March 25 between Sports Minister Kim Il Guk and the national Olympic Committee. North Korean state media had previously mentioned the committee meeting, but had not reported on its outcome. It will be the first time North Korea has missed a Summer Olympics since it boycotted Seoul in 1988 during the Cold War. The decision not to participate is a setback for South Korean officials who hoped that the Olympic Games could serve as a catalyst to revive stalled peace talks between the two nations. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rEGb With Pyongyang out, the two nations will not be able to jointly field teams — something that many in South Korea had hoped would transpire once again. South Korea's Unification Ministry in charge of inter-Korean affairs said Seoul had hoped the Tokyo Olympics would be a chance to "foster peace and reconciliation between the two Koreas". "We regret it could not happen," it added in a statement. The decision also dealt a blow to will also weaken chances that the two Koreas will be chosen to jointly host the 2032 Games, an idea agreed upon during a 2018 summit between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. In the 2018 Winter Olympics held in South Korea, North Korea sent 22 athletes along with government officials, performance artists, journalists and a 230-member cheering group. The opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Games in Pyeongchang was held at the Olympic Stadium, starting with fireworks on a frigid evening in South Korea. While the weather was often too warm in the previous games in Vancouver and Sochi, that should not be a problem this time around. As is the case with all Olympic hosts, South Korea took the opportunity presented by the opening ceremony to present something of its culture and traditions to the world. As is the tradition at both the Winter and Summer Olympic Games, Greece, the ancient home of the Olympics, are the first contingent to enter the stadium for the opening ceremony. Alpine skier Sophia Ralli led what is a realtively small Greek continent into the stadium in Pyeongchang. The dignitaries watched the opening ceremony from their own VIP stand. Bottom left is German International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach, to his right, South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Germany is represented by President Frank-Walter Steinmeier (top right). German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier was witness to a little bit of history as Kim Yo Jong, sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un shook the hand of South Korean President Moon Jae. Germany were led into the Olympic stadium by nordic-combined gold medalist from Sochi four years ago, Eric Frenzel. Germany's flagbearer was chosen in part by a popular vote on the internet, as he beat four other nominees. Ghana has sent an athlete to the Winter Olympic Games for just the second time. Akwasi Frimpong, who will be competing in the Skeleton, carried the flag into the Olympic Stadium. Downhill skier Kwame Nkrumah-Acheampong had previously represented Ghana at the 2010 Vancouver Games. There are also several other Africans competing at the Games, including from South Africa, Nigeria and Eritrea. The International Olympic Committee has banned Russia from these Winter Games over its alleged state-sponsored doping program. However, 169 carefully screened athletes have been invited to compete under a neutral flag. The "Olympic Athletes from Russia" followed the Olympic flag into the stadium. Tongan cross-country skier Pita Taufatofua stole the show when he entered the stadium bare-chested, despite sub-zero temperatures. The 34-year-old had caused a stir at the 2016 Rio Games when he oiled himself up and went topless as Tonga's flag-bearer. Taufatofua, who competed in taekwondo in Rio, had originally planned to keep his shirt on in the freezing cold — but obviously changed his mind... In a gesture of peace, the host South Koreans entered the stadium together with their neighbors from North Korea. The athletes from the bitter rivals marched into the venue under a unified Korean flag. IOC President Thomas Bach used his short address to thank the Koreans for entering as a united team. He also called on the around 3,000 athletes to "inspire us all to live together in peace and harmony despite all the differences we have." Then he gave way to South Korean President Moon, who declared the Winter Games open. There was a time when an athlete could simply walk up to the cauldron with a torch and light the Olympic Flame. Now, though, no self-respecting host would allow the Flame to be lit in such a mundane manner. South Korean figure skater Kim Yuna, who won gold in Vancouver and silver in Sochi, lit the fuse, setting off a tower of fire that shot up to the Olympic cauldron — lighting the Olympic Flame. Author: Chuck Penfold Separately at a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, the Japanese government decided to extend its sanctions on North Korea for another two years. Previously set to expire on April 13th, Japan will continue to ban all imports and exports to North Korea and restrict North Korean vessels from docking in Japan. The Japanese government maintains the sanctions will put more pressure on the North to denuclearize, abandon further ballistic missile testing programs and address the ongoing abduction of Japanese citizens. According to reports from the Kyodo News outlet, similar measures have been levied and extended since 2006. mb/rs (AP, AFP)  