Gun salutes were fired across the UK on Saturday to honor the life of Prince Philip as people laid cards and bouquets outside Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle to pay their respects. British armed forces marked Philip's death at noon (1100 GMT) with a Death Gun Salute. Artillery units in London, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast and Gibraltar, while several navy warships fired their guns. The Duke of Edinburgh, the longest-serving royal consort in British history, died on Friday, aged 99, at Windsor Castle. Queen Elizabeth II, 94, had once described her husband of 73 years as her "strength and stay" throughout her reign. He had been a constant presence at her side for decades. The royal family had issued a request to the public to adhere to COVID-19 social distancing rules and avoid visits to their homes. Nevertheless, people lined up outside royal residences to lay flowers. "What a life! Thank you for serving our country," read one tribute outside Buckingham Palace. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rmIu "We're all weeping with you, Ma'am," read the front page of British tabloid The Sun. Another mass-circulation paper, The Daily Mail, ran a 144-page tribute to Philip. Philip, who had been ill for some time, spent more than a month in hospital from February 16, being treated for a preexisting heart condition and an infection. He was later released on March 16. The queen announced Philip's passing "with deep sorrow" after he died peacefully on Friday. Prince Charles, Philip and the queen's eldest son, said on Saturday that he and his family missed the duke very much and that his "dear papa" would have been "amazed by the reaction and the touching things that have been said about him." He added that the warm public response would sustain him and his family at a sad time. Buckingham Palace has announced details of Philip's funeral, code-named Operation Fourth Bridge, giving the date as April 17. They said the ceremony would take place at Windsor Castle and would be a family service closed to the public. The palace said the Duke of Edinburgh had taken part in planning for the funeral and wanted it to be a family-focused event. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rnxa The funeral, which is to be televised, will be preceded by a national minute's silence. Prince Philip's grandson Harry, who relinquished royal duties last year and now lives in California, will fly to the UK to attend the service with his family. Harry's wife, Meghan, the duchess of Sussex, has been advised by her doctor not to attend due to her current pregnancy. The couple has recently accused the royal family of racism and of not caring about Meghan's mental health. Prime Minister Boris Johnson's office said he would not be attending to make sure there was enough room for family members. Philip would have normally been entitled to a state funeral. Under the UK's current coronavirus restrictions, up to 30 guests might be permitted to attend the funeral, DW correspondent Charlotte Chelsom-Pill says. mvb/dj (AFP, AP, Reuters) 