Your ticket to the German classical music festival scene: Concert Hour has the picks of the season — two hours of music updated regularly. Along with host Rick Fulker, the musicians themselves are on hand to give their insights into the events and the music.  Known as a virtuoso concert program architect, conductor Vladimir Jurowski opened the show by designing a musical time machine propelled by Webern, Berg and Schnittke. Composer Anton Webern explained his rationale for adapting a ricercar — an elaborate composition popular in the late Baroque and early Renaissance periods — from Bach's "A Musical Offering" for orchestra. "In my instrumentation, I want to show how the motifs are connected. And beyond that, of course, this hints at how I perceive the character of this piece," he said. Composed in 1940 and not quite ten minutes long, the second piece of music in this edition is Webern's opus 30 Orchestral Variations, a dense and rich cosmos of reduction, as conductor Vladimir Jurowski describes it. "While at work on it, Webern wrote a letter saying it was twenty minutes long. And the piece already existed! So this is essentially twenty of minutes of content packed into ten minutes of music – and every miniscule event is of cosmic importance." The third piece is an abridged version of Alban Berg's opera Wozzeck, where we hear Marie, the main female character, in three emotional states: euphoria; then recognizing her vulnerability, and finally, desperation. "Could this intensity leave anyone cold?" asks Anne Schwanewilms, the soprano playing the character. "I had tears in my eyes."  Johann Sebastian Bach/Anton Webern Fugue in six voices from A Musical Offering  Anton Webern Orchestral variations, op. 30  Alban Berg Three fragments from the opera Wozzeck for soprano, children's chorus and orchestra, op. 7  Conductor Vladimir Jurowski  Performed by: Anne Schwanewilms, soprano Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra Vladimir Jurowski, conductor Recorded by Deutschlandfunk Kultur, Berlin (DLF) in the Berlin Philharmonie on September 5, 2020  Ludwig van Beethoven Three Equals for four trombones, WoO 30 Symphony No. 5 in C Minor, op. 67, first movement Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra  Performed by: Vladimir Jurowski, conductor Recorded by Deutschlandfunk Kultur, Berlin (DLF) in the Berlin Philharmonie on September 11, 2020  Rebroadcasting rights: one broadcast before December 20, 2021   Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rXHj  In this part, we move from 1970s Soviet music by Alfred Schnittke to an unusual version of Beethoven's Symphony No. 5. Alfred Schnittke wrote music for films and theater plays – and then recycled that material into very unique pieces that he called "polystylistic" and that gave him a reputation for being a musical architect. In his Concerto Grosso No. 1 of 1978, Schnittke stages a clash of the centuries, as the piece leaps through time in an array of styles. "Schnittke doesn't quote melodies," says Vladimir Jurowski. "He quotes styles — and wraps them in a layer of irony. With Schnittke you never know: Does he mean it seriously or is this some kind of ironic exaggeration?" What makes the performance of Beethoven's Fifth on this program unusual? "We're playing the third movement in its original form," says Vladimir Jurowski. "This is not how we're used to hearing it. For the world premiere, Beethoven shortened it. He was afraid that the musicians wouldn't be able to manage the many repetitions. And it's been performed in the truncated form ever since. This symphony is magnificent because the most important things in it happen in the third and fourth movements. Of course, the first movement is strong, but it's only the kernel. You can only appreciate the true development if you hear the third and fourth movements in their original length of nearly twenty minutes."  Alfred Schnittke Concerto grosso No. 1 for two violins, prepared piano and chamber orchestra Of the over 1,120 entries in the Bach Works Catalogue (BWV), this cantata is No. 1. Bach composed it for the feast of the Annunciation. Based on one of the best-known hymns by Martin Luther, it is pure splendor, ranging from gentle violin sounds to a swinging, dancing mood of jubilation. Martin Luther wrote the corresponding hymn in 1524. Despite the cheerful subject of advent, the sound is somewhat dark. Bach wrote at least three cantatas on the basis of this song, the earliest in 1714 in Weimar. He starts out by developing the musical motif in the style of a French overture — very modern music in those days — which heightens the work's sense of dignity. Around the middle of this piece, you hear a gentle, calm melody which is one of Bach's catchiest tunes. The premise of this well-known cantata: the connection between Jesus and the individual soul is depicted metaphorically as a wedding. Weary of life, the person of faith longs for death and for life in the hereafter. The work dates from 1727, was written in Leipzig, and the text probably came from the pen of a 24-year-old student of theology by the name of Christoph Birkmann. Nothing unusual about that: Bach frequently set texts by little-known poets to music. Just after Bach, then a court organist in Weimar, was named concertmaster in 1714, he wrote this cantata about Christ's farewell to his disciples and about the joy of one day meeting again. Despite the depressing title, the piece has an upbeat message that's fitting for Jubilate Sunday, the third Sunday after Easter. Another work by the young Bach in Weimar. Rather than hope or consolation, the subject is fear of the fires of hell. To illustrate, Bach finds the appropriately dramatic sounds. "My quite terrified heart trembles / so that my tongue cleaves to the roof of my mouth," the choir sings. At the end, there's a ray of hope, with a plea of deliverance from life's suffering and temptations. "One of the most extraordinary and inspired of Bach's works," in the assessment of the conductor Sir John Eliot Gardiner. Consisting of two parts, the cantata with 11 movements is comparatively long. The moods range from a motif suggesting a gentle sigh to a flood of triumphant joy. "The raging serpent, the hellish dragon / storms against heaven with furious vengeance," goes the text, which continues: "But Michael conquers / and the host that surrounds him / overthrows Satan's cruelty." The story of this apocalyptic meeting is depicted in music on St. Michael's Day that commemorates Michael the archangel. Author: Rick Fulker Performed by: Erez Ofer, violin Nadine Contini, violin Helen Collyer, harpsichord and piano Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra Vladimir Jurowski, conductor Recorded by Deutschlandfunk Kultur, Berlin (DLF) in the Berlin Philharmonie on September 5, 2020  Ludwig van Beethoven Symphony No. 5 in C Minor, op. 67, 3rd and 4th movements  Performed by: Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra Vladimir Jurowski, conductor Recorded by Deutschlandfunk Kultur, Berlin (DLF) in the Berlin Philharmonie on September 11, 2020  Rebroadcasting rights: one broadcast before December 20, 2021