For centuries, Muslims and Christians have lived side by side in many African countries, such as Guinea and Gambia — both Muslim-majority countries. DW's Omar Wally confirmed that there have been intermarriages and joint celebration of religious feasts in Gambia. However, as the Muslim holy month of Ramadan unfolds, reports indicate that Christian minorities in these two West African nations are complaining of increasing marginalization. In biblical times, paradise was where Adam and Eve lived, supposedly the area between the Euphrates and Tigris rivers — until God banished them from the Garden of Eden because they nibbled on the forbidden fruit from the Tree of Knowledge. There are still lush oases on the banks of the river, but people's lives there today are anything but paradisiacal. John the Baptist baptized people, including Jesus of Nazareth, in the waters of the Jordan River, symbolically cleansing them of their sins. For the Mandaeans in Iraq, one of the oldest religious communities in the world, he was the last prophet on earth. To this day, they believe in the power of water and regularly purify themselves in the Tigris — just like their prophet once did. Villages that would later become powerful empires were founded in Mesopotamia about 5,500 years ago. Today, most of this historical region lies on Iraqi territory, between the Euphrates and Tigris rivers. In ancient times the land was very fertile, today it is barren and sandy. Abraham once lived here, in the city of Ur. Ur dates back to 4,000 BCE. It is one of the oldest cities whose ruins have ever been discovered by archaeologists, and thought to be the cradle of civilization. According to the Bible, it is where God ordered Ur-native Abraham to leave for the Promised Land, Canaan. On his Iraq trip, Pope Francis is expected for a visit. Abraham is a key figure in the Old Testament. God repeatedly tested him, and demanded the ultimate proof of his faith: the sacrifice of his son. Abraham went ahead with the preparations but was stopped by God just in time. God also told Abraham his descendents must be circumcised, a practice that Jews and Muslims still follow today. Nineveh, the capital of the Assyrian Empire, also stood on the Tigris River. The ruins of the ancient city can be found in Mosul. "Islamic State" (IS) militants in 2014 destroyed the Mosque of the Prophet Jonah, an ancient church that repurposed by Muslims where he was allegedly buried. The pope is also scheduled to visit Mosul because Jonah's tomb was a revered pilgrimage site for Muslims and Christians alike. The prophet was told to announce God's judgement of sinful Nineveh. He boarded a ship to flee, but the vessel capsized in a storm. Jonah survived because a whale swallowed him whole and later spat him out, according to the Bible. Perhaps this is what the magnificent Ishtar Gate, built during the reign of Nebuchadnezzar II. (605-562 BCE), looked like. Today, there is only this replica of a city gate through which people once streamed into the city of Babylon. But the people of Babylon wanted more than a gate: a tower so high it would reach heaven. God prevented the tower by creating so many languages that people could no longer communicate. According to Isaiah 13:19-22, God wanted to annihilate Babylon: "And Babel, the glory of kingdoms, will never be inhabited or lived in through all generations," it says. "Desert creatures will lie there, jackals will fill her houses; there the owls will dwell, and there the wild goats will leap about." Ezekiel, the son of a priest, lived as a captive among other exiles in Babylon under King Nebuchadnezzar II. He chastised the people for idolatry and prophesied the downfall of cities and nations that turned away from God. Legend has it that the tomb of the prophet Ezekiel is located in the Iraqi village of al-Kifl. Jews have been making pilgrimages to the tomb of the Prophet Ezekiel since the 10th century. 200 years later, Muslims also claimed the burial place of "Dhu l-Kifl," a shrine that is strategically located on the traditional route of the Hajj caravans from Iraq and Iran, as a destination for pilgrims. Assur is the name of a god, a city and the once powerful Assyrian nation — a name that struck fear in the hearts of people in the Ancient Near East. The kings of Assyria, whose empire extended as far as Egypt, ruled with brute force. In the Bible, Assur is used only as a synonym for Assyria; the city itself is not mentioned. Iraq faced a reign of terror in the 21st century. When "Islamic State" (IS) militants invaded the town of Baghdida, also known as Karakosh, near Mosul, almost all families fled north. About 97% of the population are Christians — people the IS considers infidels that should be killed. About 250,000 Christians live in Iraq today, less than 1% of the population. St. Joseph Cathedral in Ankawa near Erbil is the seat of the Patriarch of the Chaldean Catholic Church in Iraq, built on historic ground. Traces of the fighting between the army and the Islamic State are visible everywhere, both in Erbil and Mosul. Prayer will be the means by which Pope Francis gives hope to his fellow Christians. Author: Suzanne Cords Prior to the Ramadan this year, the Gambian government passed a controversial bill that cut the daytime working hours of female civil servants during the holy month. The decision was made to allow the women to return home and prepare meals for their families to break their fast in the evenings. The move came just two weeks after the end of the Christian festival of Lent, which has left some Christians in Gambia questioning why they were not afforded a similar gesture. Nenneh Freda Gomez, a Christian, said the government's thinking was unreasonable. "Why issue such a memo in Ramadan when we just concluded our Lenten season nearly two weeks ago and such a directive was not issued," said Gomez. "Christians were fasting — you have lot of Christian female in civil service in the government. If you ask me that is really illogical." Not every Christian shares Gomez's view, however. Lawyer Melvin Robertson Roberts — who is also a practicing Christian — challenged the comparison between Ramadan and Lent, and advocates for different treatments for the two feasts. "The dynamics and regime of the Christian Lent is radically different from Muslim holy month of Ramadan. I don't think the two are the same and should be treated as such,” the legal expert told DW. Priests arrive at the Church of Nativity, believed to be the birthplace of Jesus, adhering to strict social-distancing guidelines. The traditional midnight mass on Christmas Eve is closed to the general public amid a coronavirus lockdown. Only clerics are permitted to attend. The pandemic has dealt a heavy blow to Bethlehem's tourism sector. Restaurants, hotels and gift shops have been shuttered in line with coronavirus restrictions. Evening celebrations, when pilgrims normally congregate around the Christmas tree, have been canceled. Thousands of foreign pilgrims usually flock to the holy city and watch parades such as this. This year attendance fell dramatically. Israel has closed its international airport and Palestinian authorities enforced an intercity travel ban, meaning many were kept away. The newly-appointed Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem and top Roman Catholic cleric, Pierbattista Pizzaballa, who himself contracted the virus and recovered, will lead this year's reduced celebrations. The 85-year-old Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, who usually attends said he would not participate. In the traditional nativity story, shepherds watch flocks of sheep. During the coronavirus pandemic in Bethlehem this year, security guards ensure that strict lockdown measures are being adhered to in holy spots, such as the Church of the Nativity. Despite the circumstances, town leaders are determined to send a message of hope. "So we are celebrating the holiday in all means, the only thing missing at this stage is the big crowd, like it used to be in the previous years, but people in Bethlehem are optimistic that the future will be better," said Mayor Anton Salman. While perhaps it appears easy to make the distinction in Gambia where there are official policies in place, the same does not appear to be the case in Guinea. In Conakry, the country's capital, concerns have been raised over the expectation of a conservative dress code. While many women choose to cover themselves from head to toe as they observe Ramadan, non-Muslims who continue to dress as they normally would, have been reported to suffer public humiliation and discrimination. "When you wear skirt or trousers during Ramadan you're treated like a call girl by the public," said Josephine Kamano, a non-Muslim. "You are humiliated and even denied access to some places. Everyone has his or her religion. I am not a Muslim, so it is not obligatory for me to dress like a Muslim. It is their fasting, not mine." In Guinea where about 85% of the population identifies as Muslim, the conservative dress code is not official law, but most people respect it during Ramadan as a matter of convention. "I am a Muslim woman, so I need to dress properly and cover my head to my toes. Because the month of Ramadan is a holy month, and we must respect it," 22-year-old Hawa Cisse told DW. Every year, millions of practicing Muslims across the world fast, pray and give alms in observance of Islam's holiest month, which begins in 2019 on May 5 and ends in the evening of June 4. From firing off cannon to lunar sightings, DW explores how Muslims mark the occasion and what it means to the faithful. The sighting of the new moon of Ramadan is practiced by religious authorities across the globe to determine the beginning of the month of fasting. While some observe the new moon with telescopes, others use the naked eye, which is why Ramadan may begin on different days in certain parts of the world. Prayer is often considered a fundamental part of observing the month of fasting. Ramadan traditionally begins with a special prayer known as "Tarawih" on the eve of the holy month. During Ramadan, practicing Muslims generally participate in communal prayer at their local mosque. The month of fasting represents a period of spiritual discipline and purification. As such, reading and reciting the Quran, Islam's holy book, form an integral part of the traditional rituals observed during Ramadan. The Quran is believed to have been revealed to the Prophet Muhammad during the month of Ramadan. While Islam offers prescribed rituals to observe during Ramadan, many places have local traditions that coincide with the month of fasting. In Sarajevo, a cannon is traditionally fired to mark the breaking of the fast on each day of Ramadan. In Egypt, displaying a decorated lantern known as a "fanous" is part of the tradition. After a long day without food and water, many Muslims traditionally break their fast with a date, the nutritious fruit with which the Prophet Muhammad is believed to have broken his fast. Afterwards, observing Muslims often partake in a communal dinner known as "Iftar." The celebration of Eid al-Fitr, or the festival of breaking the fast, marks the official end of Ramadan. From indulging in sweets to offering gifts to loved ones, Muslims celebrate the end of the fasting month with large meals prepared for friends and family. It is considered a joyful time in which to be generous and kind to others. Author: Lewis Sanders IV "For God to forgive our sins, all other girls and woman must do the same, whether you are a Muslim or not," said 22-year-old Hawa Cisse." This approach is shared by many Guineans who still hold conservative attitudes around women's dress codes and even believe women are more likely to experience sexual harassment if they are dressed indecently according to the Quran. But Dr Bakari Arabi, a London-based Islamic scholar said the practice is wrong. "That practice has no place in Islam, it contradicts the tenets of the Quran," Bakari told DW. "Islam is against mistreatment of any human being, Islam has commanded Muslims to be respectful abstain from discrimination and, to uphold the dignity of Allah. Non-Muslims are not required to abide by the rules that are meant for Muslims." The changes in Guinea are not limited to female dress codes, as other areas of social life are also impacted. Bars, nightclubs and restaurants are closed to the public across the country, affecting people, such as civil servants. "As you can see there is nothing here to eat. It's exactly the same everywhere in town since 8 a.m. I have been looking for food," said Joseph Kamono. "We are not Muslims, so they don't need to deprive us of our right to food because of the month of Ramadan." The advice given to all Guineans — to avoid eating or drinking in public during the day until May 12 — does not pose a problem for Muslims, but, according to Bakari, it is a source of unfathomed inconvenience for many non-Muslims. "If a Christian lives in any Muslim-majority country, Muslims should not force them to follow their religion ... Allah says Islam is not a compulsion religion, you can't compel anyone to enter into your religion, if you someone into the religion under duress, it is not even acceptable by Allah," Bakari said. It would present a major risk if vast crowds of Muslim worshippers flocked to the Kaaba at the Great Mosque of Mecca. This picture shows a handful of individuals who did come to the Great Mosque when Ramadan began –— though most of those depicted are actually cleaners. This Sri Lankan family in Malwana is breaking the fast. Sitting close together around an array of dishes, they pray, before enjoying their meal. By Europeans standards, this gathering would somewhat contravene social distancing rules. It is being reported that in Israel, residents are taking social distancing very seriously. These Muslim men, for example, have gathered at a parking lot near Jaffa beach to pray — the markings on the ground help them keep a safe distance. Imam Bambang Suprianto from the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, is relying on the city's mobile phone and internet infrastructure to reach worshipers. Pictured here at Sunda Kelapa mosque, Suprianto is live streaming his Quran reading via social media platforms. Wearing a mask covering his mouth and nose, meanwhile, sets a great example for others to follow. This sign outside Masjid Al-Salaam mosque in Dearborn Community Center, Michigan, reads: "Ramadan Kareem," which roughly translates to "may Ramadan be generous to you." The letters were put in place by staff at the center to announce the beginning of the Muslim holy month. With mosque visits out of the question, worshippers can still pray in solitude. Sitting on a rug on a Colombo rooftop, in the Sri Lankan capital, this boy awaits the moment to end his daily Ramadan fast. Imam Benjamin Idriz records a Quran recitation via smartphone to upload later. This photo shows him at the Penzberg Islamic Forum, a mosque inaugurated in southern Bavaria in 2005. This place of worship won an architectural prize — and even with this limited view, it's not hard to see why. This is Istanbul's Galata Tower in the city's Beyoglu district. Usually the area is teeming with people, yet with Turkey also fighting the coronavirus pandemic most people are avoiding crowds. Mosques across the country have been told to stay closed, despite Ramadan. Some things don't change, no matter the circumstances. Seen here is a muezzin in the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu, reciting the azan, or Islamic summons to prayer. Throughout the entire month of Ramadan, the call will be heard several times a day, as always. This Singapore convention center is normally used for exhibitions and trade shows. But with much of the world's economic life having come to a near standstill amid the lockdown, this space has now been converted into a COVID-19 ward — complete with a special space for worshippers to pray during Ramadan. Author: Marko Langer For Muslims, in both Gambia and Guinea, the month of Ramadan is one of the holiest times of the year. It is considered a time of reflection, self-improvement, and heightened devotion to Allah. For Gambia — which maintains a secular constitution — the situation is a little more complicated. Former President Yahya Jammeh in 2015 issued an executive order requiring all female government workers to cover their hair during office hours. That same year, he declared Gambia an Islamic Republic, although this decision was later reversed by his successor, President Adama Barrow. Despite not being an official Islamic Republic, the current Gambian government is still discriminating against Christians in the country, according to US-based rights activist Pa Samba Jow. "I personally find the memo completely unnecessary, absolutely patronizing and unwittingly discriminator," Pa Samba Jow said.. This position is cautiously supported by Dr. Bakari Arabi who asserted: "This is a policy made by a sovereign government, but talking from Islamic perspective, that is not right." To him, "Quran has made it clear that Muslims should be good and kind to everyone and treat fairly those who are non-Muslims as long as they treat you also fairly." While the Gambian government's decision has caused a stir in the country and beyond, conservative Muslims have extolled lawmakers for the reduced working hours. Some have argued that the memo is not discriminatory as it referred to female civil servants with no mention of religion, meaning that Christian workers will also be allowed to go home early. Karim Kamara and Omar Wale contributed to this article 