The majority of Germans no longer trust the government's vaccination strategy, nor the promise of nationwide vaccinations by the end of the summer, mass-circulation Bild newspaper reported on Thursday. The revelation came from a survey carried out by the INSA polling organization for Bild. Only a quarter of respondents said that they still trusted the German government's vaccination strategy. Even fewer — 21% of respondents — said they believed the often-repeated assurance from the government that all adults in Germany will have been offered the chance to be fully vaccinated by September 21. Germany has fallen behind several countries such as the UK, US and Israel in terms of its vaccine rollout, with the government saying that not enough doses were available. By Tuesday, over three months since health workers began administering COVID-19 vaccines, some 11.3% of the population had received at least one vaccine shot. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rSWY US company Johnson & Johnson said on Wednesday that a batch of COVID-19 vaccine doses had been ruined due to a manufacturing error. As many as 15 million doses may have been affected, according to the New York Times. Emergent Biosolutions — a factory making the vaccine's key ingredient — made a mistake that led to the doses failing a quality check and not advancing to the fill-and-finish stage. Seattle-based company Amazon said it plans to bring its employees back into the office by fall to return to an "office-centric culture." Amazon was one of the first large companies to send its workers home during the first outbreak of COVID-19 in the Seattle-area in March 2020. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rS2r Health authorities in Brazil said on Tuesday that they had detected a new coronavirus variant that is similar to the mutation first found in South Africa. Brazil has already been ravaged by the P1 coronavirus variant that was first discovered in January 2021. Germany has reported a total of 24,300 new COVID cases within 24 hours, according to the country's Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases. This is around 1,600 more than the same time last week. In addition, the seven-day incidence has increased to 134.2, up from 132.3 on Wednesday. The seven-day incidence measures the number of cases per 100,000 residents within this time period. Ukraine has reported a record daily high of COVID deaths for the second day in a row, according to the country's health minister Maksym Stepanov. There have been 421 coronavirus-related deaths over 24 hours, breaking the previous high of 407 deaths, reported by Ukrainian authorities on Wednesday. In Austria, two provinces are joining capital Vienna in in extending their restrictions by five days over the Easter break, until April 11. Burgenland, which borders Hungary and Lower Austria have introduced the lockdowns because their hospitals are approaching their full intensive-care capacity. They have high levels of the dangerous British coronavirus variant and infections are rising.  Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rOpX The Australian city of Brisbane was set to end its snap lockdown on Thursday. Health authorities in the city recorded four locally transmitted infections with the British variant on Monday. Following a short, strict lockdown and widespread testing, authorities said that it was safe again to ease some restrictions. Hong Kong is set to resume the use of a COVID-19 vaccine from Germany's BioNTech next Monday. The semi-autonomous territory abruptly halted inoculations 9 days ago due to defective packaging. Japan's government is set to impose emergency measures in the western region of Osaka to halt a rebound in COVID-19 cases. The new measures will include shorter business hours, as well as asking people to work from home and refrain from activities like karaoke.  