Prince Philip has died at the age of 99, Buckingham Palace announced on Friday. A tweet from the official royal family account confirmed the news, saying: "It is with deep sorrow that Her Majesty The Queen has announced the death of her beloved husband, His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh." He "passed away peacefully" at Windsor Castle, the tweet said. The queen's husband had been admitted to hospital in February for a procedure to treat a preexisting heart condition. He was released from the hospital on March 16 and returned to Windsor Castle. Born on the Greek island of Corfu in 1921, the Duke of Edinburgh married Elizabeth in 1947. He was the country's longest-serving consort. Read his full obituary here: Prince Philip, backbone of the UK royal family. Prince Philip's early years were marked by tragedy. When he was still young his mother was diagnosed with schizophrenia and placed in an asylum. Philip would rarely see her until adulthood. He was sent to boarding schools in France and Germany, but the rise of the Nazis forced him to continue his education in Scotland. Here, Philip (second from left) is seen at a French school in about 1929. Philip held royal titles since his birth on June 10, 1921, in Corfu. As the only son of Prince Andrew of Greece and Princess Alice of Battenberg, he was born the prince of Greece and Denmark — titles he would relinquish upon marrying Princess Elizabeth in 1947. After fleeing unrest in Greece at just 18 months, Philip went on to become a naturalized British citizen. As the queen's husband of more than 70 years, Prince Philip was the longest-serving British consort, or companion to the sovereign. The couple married on November 20, 1947, at Westminster Abbey, at which point Philip was given the title of Duke of Edinburgh. Just over four years later, Elizabeth ascended to the throne after the death of her father, King George VI, in February 1952. Philip and Elizabeth had two children, Charles and Anne (pictured in 1953 at Clarence House), before Elizabeth became queen. Two more sons followed in 1960 and 1964, Andrew and Edward. As their first-born son, Prince Charles is next in line for the throne. Princess Charlotte, pictured here in June 2017 with her mother the Duchess of Cambridge (center), is one of Prince Philip's nine great-grandchildren. He had eight grandchildren, including Charlotte's father, Prince William (right). Upon his retirement in August 2017, Prince Philip had served as patron or president to some 800 organizations. These reflected his interests in conservation, sport, the military and engineering — and the Cartoon Art Trust, seen here in 2002. He also established The Duke of Edinburgh Award in 1956, which aims to instill confidence and new skills in young people. As someone who took part in many official ceremonies and photo ops, Prince Philip developed a reputation for being gaffe-prone at best, and insulting at worst. Upon meeting a group of Australian Aborigines in 2002, the prince asked if they were "still throwing spears at each other?" And in 1997, he called then German Chancellor Helmut Kohl "Reichskanzler" — the title used by Adolf Hitler. Philip's marriage to Queen Elizabeth lasted more than seven decades and despite the inevitable rumors was, to all appearances, remarkably free of scandal. Royal historian Robert Lacey said they were not "a soppy couple," though they shared a passion for horses. Philip, however, was rumored to be less keen on his wife's cherished corgis. Author: Matt Zuvela Downing Street and Buckingham Palace lowered the flags to half-mast, footage circulated on social media platforms showed. The BBC interrupted its scheduled programming to broadcast the national anthem. Prince Philip steered the monarchy to remain a vital institution for the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said as he paid tribute to the late Duke of Edinburgh. "We remember the duke ... above all for his steadfast support for Her Majesty the Queen, not just as her consort, by her side, every day of her reign, but as her husband, her strength and stay of more than 70 years," Johnson said outside 10 Downing Street. Keir Starmer, leader of the opposition UK Labour Party expressed his condolences, saying that the UK had "lost an extraordinary public servant." First Minister for Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, and Northern Ireland's First Minister Arlene Foster also expressed their condolences to the royal family. The Archbishop of Canterbury released a statement mourning the loss of Prince Philip who "continually demonstrated his unfailing support and unstinting loyalty to Her Majesty The Queen for 73 years." German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier publicly mourned the loss of a man who he said played an important role in reconciling Germany and the UK after the horrors of the second World War. The president said he had met the Prince "personally with great pleasure" in London and Berlin, and had enjoyed Philip's "witty humor." Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas tweeted his condolences, adding that "our thoughts and prayers go out to the Royal family, the people of the Commonwealth, and all who loved him dearly." The president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, was also saddened by the news of Philip's passing. "I would like to extend my sincere sympathy to Her Majesty The Queen, the Royal Family and the people of the United Kingdom on this very sad day," she wrote on Twitter. Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin tweeted that "our thoughts and prayers are with Queen Elizabeth and the people of the United Kingdom at this time." Condolences also came in from other royal households such as the Swedish and Norwegian royal families. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Prince Philip was "no stranger to Australia." "Thorough his service to the Commonwealth he presided as patron or president of nearly 50 organizations in Australia. Given his own service, Prince Philip also had a strong connection with the Australian Defence Force," Morrison said in a statement. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Arden also expressed her sorrow, adding that Philip will be "remembered for the encouragement he gave to so many young New Zealanders through The Duke of Edinburgh’s Hillary Award"  