It is fascinating to watch media outlets passionately engage in Germany bashing these days. In light of the blatant mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic, some journalists say a "new German incompetence" has beset the country, whereas others have described the situation as marked by "multiple political failures" and "structural failures." Indeed, some have even claimed that we are seeing "state failure." It may be a typically German trait to paint stark pictures. The pendulum of public opinion has swung from one extreme to the other. At the start of the pandemic in 2020, international observers were amazed by how well Germany had weathered the outbreak — and Germans were lapping up the praise. As the country heads into its third wave, this self-congratulatory mood has given way to fierce criticism. Surprisingly, many Germans a blaming the country's patchwork of states for the problems. They take issue with the very concept of German federalism. DW's Zoran Arbutina In the mid-1980s, the philosopher Jürgen Habermas suggested that Germans subscribe to a form of constitutional — rather than ethnic — patriotism. The latter, obviously, has a contaminated historical connotation in Germany. The constitution defines Germany as a federal state. The basic idea is to involve many different actors in decision-making processes and thereby share responsibility. For good reason, this is one of the key hallmarks of postwar German politics. The last time that Germany was organized as a centralized polity resulted in catastrophe. It is for this reason that leaders cannot impose decisions from Berlin, as many Germans would like to see during the pandemic. Over the years, this system of checks and balances has given rise to a consensus-driven style of policymaking. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rbLr This model of policymaking has proved disadvantageous during the pandemic. Federal systems are complicated, slow and expensive to maintain. It takes time, effort and determination to forge compromises and build consensus. During the pandemic, this system seems inefficient — as if it were controlled by ditherers. This is unsettling to many. What we want in these times, after all, is someone who will lead the way. Adopting a countrywide disaster-control law could present a temporary solution to this dilemma. So far, disaster relief is the prerogative of individual states. Alternatively, the Infectious Diseases Protection Act could be expanded and tied to clearly defined conditions. Two points should be considered. Concentrating power in fewer hands does not reduce the risk of mismanagement. There are ample examples of how more centralized countries, including neighbors such as France, have made the wrong decisions. France is not a model when it comes to handling the pandemic. Though federal systems may be slow and expensive, they are certainly cheaper and more efficient than autocracies or dictatorships in the long term. Decades of German success testify to this. Indeed, Germany's federal system has attracted admiration and envy abroad. Many people want to move here — and not just because they can find relatively well-paid work. What draws them to Germany is that its political system allows people to lead good, safe and free lives. This opinion article has been translated from German. Bonn's Old Town (Altstadt) is home to about 300 cherry blossom trees, which were largely planted in the late 1980s. Originally, the city had intended to plant hawthorn trees but couldn't get its hands on stock at the time. The cherry blossom trees were a bit of an improvised solution to this — with lasting effect. Each spring, it all begins with small buds emerging one morning. This is when locals start placing their bets on how long it might take for the trees to blossom and bloom into their full magnificence. Once the first petals start to properly open up, it is usually only a matter of days until the whole Altstadt area transforms into a sea of pink. Some of the cherry blossoms take a little longer than others to open up, as there are different varieties planted in Bonn's Old Town. Also, some streets of the Altstadt enjoy sunnier weather than others, which also results in delays in areas, while other roads may already be in full bloom. The petals of the trees usually begin to show sometime in late March or early April. And, even once the trees have fully blossomed, you can never rely on how long you might get to enjoy them. Frosty nights in spring could easily transform these pink beauties into withered brown petals practically overnight. The weather in the region can be particularly unpredictable this time of the year, and cherry blossoms are very sensitive to any outside influence — especially to rain. The local street known as Heerstrasse becomes the most famous address in the area each spring, showcasing its cherry blossom canopy year after year. It has even been named one of the 10 most beautiful avenues in the world, with coffee shops, pubs and art galleries making it a fun neighborhood. Another local street, Breite Strasse, is also well-known for showing off its pink beauties each spring. Until 2012, the annual Bonn cherry blossom was at best a regional highlight of the year. But then a number of Facebook and Instagram accounts transformed it into an international must-see event. The Lonely Planet travel guide even named Bonn one of the top 10 Cities to visit in 2020 — but then came the coronavirus pandemic. With the coronavirus pandemic now in its second year, the city of Bonn has kindly asked visitors not to come for this cherry blossom season. Local authorities are patrolling the streets to prevent clusters of people from forming and to disperse larger gatherings. Above all, everyone has to wear a mask if they are anywhere near the Alstadt. The cherry blossom normally culminates in an annual festival on the picturesque cobblestone Altstadt streets. There is even a local cocktail made with real cherry blossom petals. But, in 2020 and 2021, people have had to resort to "quarantinis" instead. At least this year, the cherry blossom also brought some Easter eggs. Bonn made provisions to keep the pink parade going each spring. In 2019, it replaced 30 trees that had begun to rot. The local tourism authority also wants to make sure that, after the pandemic is over, people will return to marvel at the beautiful blossom tunnels in the Altstadt. In the years before the pandemic, there was an annual increase in visitors coming to Bonn to admire the spectacle. Cherry blossoms hail from Japan, where they are known as sakura. The act of viewing the trees is known as "hanami" — a term that is becoming familiar to locals in Bonn. In Japan, the blossom is regarded as a harbinger of change and a reminder of impermanence. Much like the cherry blossom itself, the current restrictions and limitations will also end one day — and new things will blossom. Author: Sertan Sanderson