Lieg, population 400, lies in a picturesque region of Germany's western state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Just six kilometers east of the beautiful Moselle River, it hosts plenty of lovingly restored half-timber houses, the voluntary fire service that is found in most small settlements across Germany, a school, and — at the heart of the village — an eye-catching church. The inhabitants of this village find themselves at the center of a story so incredible that people are talking about "the miracle of Lieg." Since the beginning of the pandemic, 3.25 million people across Germany have been infected with COVID-19 and in most parts of the country, high incidence rates have led to strict shutdowns and curfews. In Lieg, meanwhile, the number of new infections is currently zero. Since the start of the pandemic, for 14 months now, it has registered not a single case of COVID-19. It's as if the virus runs up against an imaginary glass wall when it reaches the boundary of the village. Towns along the scenic Moselle River are famous for their vineyards — and castles Heinz Zilles, the local mayor, is as amazed as everyone else: "We've been unbelievably lucky until now. Of course, there are no guarantees, but maybe somewhere up there in the heavens there is a guardian angel watching over us." Zilles has been taking telephone calls nonstop for the past two weeks, since the local newspaper broke the story. The 57-year-old quickly realized that he was going to be faced with a huge surge in media interest. And of course, everybody wants to know what Lieg is getting right. So what is the magic formula? "Amid all the shocking reports that we hear, our story sends a positive message,"  says Heinz Zilles. "There's a lot of real community spirit in our village, a lot of people involved in voluntary work. People putting their hands up, and getting things done. We're members of 'team Lieg,' and we all do what we can," says Zilles. Lieg's mayor Heinz Zilles is pleased to see how his villagers have avoided infection Young people in the village got together and created a "young for old" shopping service. Another team visits senior citizens — always with a small present at hand. And parents have been collecting money to buy air filters for the village school. "There are things that politicians promise, but don't deliver on. And that's where we come in," says the mayor with a palpable sense of pride. He goes on to say that they're providing a blueprint for what is typical in many similar small communities throughout the country: People know each other and look after each other. And that is quite possibly what lies behind our zero-infection rate. Nobody, he adds, is naive enough to believe that the virus isn't out there. "There are no coronavirus skeptics in Lieg. Not one," believes Zilles: "People stick to the rules; they're sensible, disciplined. And they accept that what we're up against is a global phenomenon with huge reach." The fact that there have been no COVID-19 infections in Lieg is all the more remarkable given that 90% of the people in the village commute to work. Taking a cue from the wisdom of soccer, they play with a tight defense — and don't concede any goals. That's the game plan in Lieg. Continuing the sports metaphor, Heinz Zilles is playing a cautious game in which he hopes everybody will be a winner: "This is not a me-or-you situation — God forbid! And of course, there's always the risk of losing our zero." "In that case, we would all know that there was nobody to blame. We'd all have done our best." Firefighter Thomas Wickert, Mayor Zilles and holiday home owner Martin Weil are standing together against COVID-19 Martin Weil could point to his village's zero-infection rate to win future business for the four holiday apartments that he rents out. Not that this would help right now, with the strict restrictions at play across the country. Under ordinary circumstances, the homes would be booked out. His "Landhof Lieg" is popular for walking tours. There are Icelandic horses to ride; and there is what is often called Germany's most beautiful hanging rope bridge. But the problem is that since November, coronavirus restrictions have put the tourist trade on hold. The proud zero-infection figure doesn't make a difference on that front. At 360 meters (1,180 feet) long, the hanging bridge in Geierlay near Lieg is Germany's longest "I really can't make up my mind. On the one hand, holiday apartments are ideal because they reduce contact and keep people apart. But the question is also: do we really want people from regions with high infection rates to be taking their holidays here?" One factor in the "miracle of Lieg" is that nobody wants to be the first person in the village to contract the virus. This also applies to Martin Weil. He has received bridge financing to keep his business alive during the pandemic. But the future remains uncertain. There is, perhaps a silver lining: "Maybe people will remember, and that might help attract new guests." The Rheinsteig hiking trail follows an elevated path for an impressive 320 kilometers along the Rhine. But for shorter hiking fun you can make use of the circular paths that are attached to the trail, leading you up and down hills on narrow paths through steep vineyards, along the river shore and over high plateaus, passing legendary sights such as the Lorelei rock at St. Goarshausen. Above the Moselle valley, the Middle Ages come back to life. From imposing castles like the Reichsburg near Cochem, knights were able to keep a watchful eye on the river at all times. They also made a thriving business by charging a toll from every boat that sought to pass. Cochem today is a tourism hub for the "Terrassenmosel" - named after the highest vineyard terraces in Europe. The slate cliffs along the river in the Upper Middle Rhine Valley, a World Heritage Site, are lined with castles and ruins. Every year on the last Sunday in June, cars are banned from driving on a 120-kilometer stretch of road from Bingen to Koblenz. This is when cyclists and skaters can enjoy the route, which culminates in a big party celebrated by 150,000 visitors on both shores of the Rhine. The romanticism of the Rhine has drawn travelers for 200 years. You can take a boat ride from Koblenz - home of the German Corner, where the Rhine and Moselle meet - to the Lorelei cliff, or tour the Moselle valley. Visitors can take a cable car to the citadel Ehrenbreitstein, offering great views above the Rhine. And those who wish to stay up top can spend the night at the youth hostel. Worms cathedral is the spectacular backdrop for the annual Nibelungen Festival, a cultural summer highlight in Rhineland-Palatinate. The Nibelungen, one of Germany's best known sagas, has been inscribed in UNESCO's Memory of the World Register in recognition of its historical significance. Famous actors and directors have made the festival hugely successful. In 2014 a hiker discovered scratch marks on the slate cliffs close to Gondershausen in the Hunsrück region. Archeologists were delighted, for this type of stone carving had until then only been found in Portugal, Spain and France, making this find currently the most northern Paleolithic rock art in Europe. The carvings, which are over 20,000 years old, are thought to represent horses. The Palatinate Forest nature reserve, along with the northern French Alsace region of North Vosges, forms a large biosphere reserve. Lynxes, wild cats, peregrine falcons and kingfishers have a protected habitat here. The southern rock land around the town of Dahn has made it very popular with climbers, who can test their abilities on more than 80 free-standing sandstone rocks. Riesling grapes grow particularly well on the sun-drenched steep terrace vineyards of the Moselle river. Roman conquerors introduced vines to the Germanic regions some 2,000 years ago, and even back then the Moselle wine trade flourished. Visitors today can charter a replica ancient Roman wine trader's boat to sample local wines. The Stella Noviomagi weighs anchor in Neumagen-Drohn. The Roman Empire wanted to display its strength and power with this construction. It's nearly 30 meters in height and as many as six tons of stones were used to build it without any grouting. The Porta Nigra, or "black gate," is now a World Heritage Site and also very much a landmark of Trier. The originally pale gray sandstones only turned black over the course of several centuries. The Rhineland-Palatinate state capital is home to a carnival, the Mainzer Fassenacht or Fastnacht, which dates back to the 16th century. The climax of the carnival is the Rose Monday procession. A lovingly preserved tradition in Mainz are the "Schwellköpp" - oversized papier-mâché heads known as "swollen heads" that exaggeratedly represent typical Mainz characters and weigh up to 25 kilos. Author: Ille Simon Just a stone's throw from Martin Weil's holiday apartments is a small community center called Hunsrück Hall. It is the focus of the latest effort to make sure that zero remains zero. Each Saturday afternoon, the hall is turned into a test center for the residents of Lieg. When it was opened last weekend, 80 people across all age groups showed up. They had their results within just a few minutes — all were negative. The initiative has been organized by the voluntary firefighting unit, in the person of chief firefighter Daniel Platten. "When people heard what we were planning, the response was entirely positive. Nobody said they wouldn't be taking part. On the contrary: people are happy to have a test center close by," says Platten. Every weekend, eight firefighters work side-by-side with the Red Cross to ensure that the inspiring story of Lieg can be continued. And where will the story lead next? For his part, Heinz Zilles has already come up with an idea. He says that if Lieg gets through the summer and still has zero infections, then it's time for something special. "If we really do somehow make it through the pandemic without any infections being registered, then it's time for a big village fair." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3sLTi This article has been translated from German. While you're here: Every Tuesday, DW editors round up what is happening in German politics and society, with an eye toward understanding this year's elections and beyond. You can sign up here for the weekly email newsletter Berlin Briefing, to stay on top of developments as Germany enters the post-Merkel era.  