Amnesty International's chief called for the release of the imprisoned Russian opposition figure Alexei Navalny. "He needs to be freed immediately, he needs to be protected against torture, and he needs to receive medical care," Agnes Callamard, the secretary general of the UK-headquartered nonprofit, told DW on Wednesday during her first month in her new post. Her comments come as Germany's Foreign Ministry also called for Navalny's release from "unlawful" detention. Navalny, a prominent critic of President Vladimir Putin, is currently serving a two-and-half-year sentence on for violating the conditions of his bail on a 2014 fraud conviction in one of Russia's toughest prisons. He was detained in January 2021 after arriving in Russia from Berlin where he recovered from a suspected poisoning incident with the Soviet-developed Novichok nerve agent. He has since gone on hunger strike, protesting poor medical care. Amnesty International Secretary General Agnes Callamard spoke to DW following the release of the NGO's annual report Callamard also addressed the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on inequality and the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi. She spoke to DW following Amnesty International's release of its annual human rights report on Wednesday. "We know that he [Navalny] is facing prison conditions that amount to torture, including through sleep deprivation," Callamard told DW. She said the nonprofit knows that Navalny was not getting specific care that he needs due to his Novichok poisoning, as "one of the few people" to have survived poisoning with the nerve agent. Navalny this week complained of being offered painkillers as treatment for severe back pain and numbness in his legs. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rDDD "We know that is arbitrarily detained because of the position he has espoused and because he is a vocal critic of President Putin," Callamard added. She stressed that the organization was campaigning "equally for Alexei at the moment, as we would have two months ago." This was a reference to her organization's decision in February to strip Navalny of his "prisoner of conscience" status in response to his past "advocacy of hatred" — a decision taken before Callamard was appointed. Navlany's supporters accused Amnesty of having caved to a pressure campaign, after Russian users inundated the NGO with examples of past social media comments from Navalny deemed in some way insensitive or distasteful. The decision is currently "under review," with "the outcome of that process will be made public when it's finished, which should be anytime soon," Callamard told DW on Wednesday. Germany's Foreign Ministry on Wednesday joined Callamard's calls for Navalny to be released. "Mr. Navanly is now detained in a prison camp unlawfully and in contradiction to a decision by the European Court of Human Rights [ECHR]," a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry said. Berlin Charite was established in 1710 as a center for plague patients and 100 years later it grew to house a medical university. From then on, its campus has handled patients as well as research students. More than half of Germany’s Nobel Prize winners for medicine or physiology worked at the hospital. During the Nazi regime, many physicians from Charite were involved in ethical crimes related to medicine. The Charite hospital was also responsible for autopsies on Jewish suicide victims and the executed resistance fighters of July 20th. After the war, the hospital fell under the jurisdiction of the German Democratic Republic, as it was located in East Berlin. Berlin Charite became a European care hub during the outbreak of the Ebola virus in Africa in 2015. A South Korean medic, who was working in Sierra Leone and became infected with the virus, was flown to Berlin for treatment. The patient was sent to Berlin at the request of the South Korean government, which said his anonymity would be better kept there. Charite was the first hospital to detect a locally transmitted coronavirus infection in Germany, back in March. Since then, it has gained prominence as Christian Drosten, director of Charite’s Institute of Virology, has played a public role in policy during the COVID-19 health crisis and been a scientific voice during the pandemic, through his many public appearances and weekly podcast. The hospital has attracted international attention by offering support to prominent international politicians. In March 2014, Ukrainian opposition politician and presidential candidate Yulia Tymoshenko was treated at Charite. She suffered a total of three slipped discs, which she had acquired during her two and a half years imprisonment. In 2018, Pyotr Verzilov, an associate of the Russian punk rock band Pussy Riot and staunch Vladimir Putin critic was flown from Moscow to Berlin, after showing symptoms of poisoning. Charité head doctor Kai-Uwe Eckardt treated the activist. Verzilov's case is said to have set the precedent for Alexei Navalny's supporters to consider Berlin for his treatment. Vladimir Putin critic and prominent Russian dissident Alexei Navalny was flown to Charite Berlin from a hospital in Omsk, Russia, to be treated for suspected poisoning. The activist traveled on a chartered flight paid for by the NGO Cinema for Peace. Chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who pushed for a speedy transfer for Navalny to Germany. Author: Jenipher Camino Gonzalez "It is our very clear expectation that Mr. Navalny should be released," the spokesperson added. Reports of the Kremlin critic's poor health were "disturbing," he said. Navalny is currently serving his sentence for disobeying the terms of his probation over a 2014 money laundering conviction that the ECHR in 2017 was "arbitrary and manifestly unreasonable." Berlin has previously called for Russia to released Navalny. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3r81V Callamard also criticized a global failure to act in the wake of journalist Jamal Khashoggi's murder. The Saudi journalist and Washington Post columnist was killed inside the Saudi consulate in Turkey's largest city in 2018. "Unfortunately [the US] did not act on their findings" that Saudi Arabia and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman were involved in Khashoggi's murder, Callamard, who previously worked as UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings, told DW. She added that the US failure to act was likely down to legal and geo-strategic reasons. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3jCGg She also called out "the entire EU" for failing to take action against Bin Salman, adding: "The fact is Saudi Arabia is a partner of choice for many countries around the world." Callamard said that nevertheless, the Saudi crown prince could face continued difficulties as a result of the case. "There are many countries around the world where he [Bin Salman] is unable to go because he could be sued immediately …including in Germany where Reporters Without Borders has filed a complaint of crimes against humanity," she said. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) filed a complaint of over 300 pages against several high-ranking members of the Saudi government and Bin Salman with the German Office of the Federal Prosecutor in March.  