Security forces in Myanmar opened fire on anti-coup protesters on Saturday, killing at least five people. The latest deaths came as a human rights group reported that security forces have killed at least 550 civilians since February 1, when the military overthrew an elected government led by Aung San Suu Kyi. Out of those killed, 46 were children, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners added. At least four people were killed in the central town of Monywa, which has seen big daily protests for weeks. Reuters news agency reported that government forces fired on a crowd, which left several others injured. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rW2c One man was shot and killed in the southern town of Thaton, the Bago Weekly Journal online news portal and residents reported. Police also fired in the central town of Bago, wounding one man. On Friday, Myanmar's military blocked all internet access apart from those using fiberoptic cable, which was working at drastically reduced speeds. The internet shutdown followed weeks of overnight cutoffs. Anti-coup protesters have changed their tactics to avoid violent suppression from security forces Access to mobile networks and all wireless — the less-costly options used by most people in the developing country — remained blocked on Saturday. The military has been facing daily protests since taking power. But the demonstrations that drew tens of thousands of people in the early days of defiance in big cities have become rarer. Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of Myanmar's assassinated founding father Aung San, returned to her home country in the late 1980s after studying and starting a family in England. She became a key figure in the 1988 uprisings against the country's military dictatorship. Her National League for Democracy (NLD) was victorious in 1990 elections, but the government refused to honor the vote. Suu Kyi spent 15 of the 21 years between 1989 and 2010 under house arrest. After 1995, the rights advocate was barred from seeing her two sons and husband, Michael Aris, even after the latter was diagnosed with cancer. Aris, seen here displaying an honorary doctorate awarded to his wife, died in 1999. Suu Kyi's determination to bring democracy and human rights to her country won her international renown, including the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize. She was so popular that in 2011 famous French director Luc Besson made a biopic of her life starring Malaysian actor Michelle Yeoh. Suu Kyi was often called the world's most famous political prisoner. Decades of campaigning finally paid off, and in 2012 Suu Kyi was allowed to run in free elections. She won a seat in parliament as Myanmar began its transition away from military government. After general elections in 2015, she became the country's de facto civilian leader, although officially she held the post of foreign minister and state counselor — a role akin to prime minister. Rohingya, a mostly Muslim ethnic group, had their citizenship revoked by Myanmar's Buddhist-majority government in 1982. Long persecuted, their plight intensified in 2016 when Myanmar's military began what it called "clearance" of illegal immigrants. Groups such as Human Rights Watch have described it as "ethnic cleansing." Thousands have died, and hundreds of thousands have fled their homes. When she became state counselor in 2016, Suu Kyi set up a commission to investigate claims of atrocities against the Rohingya in Rakhine state. Suu Kyi accused the Rohingya of spreading "a huge iceberg of misinformation," and said she was concerned by the "terrorist threat" posed by extremists. Her stance sparked protests in Muslim-majority countries around the world. Due to her handling of the Rohingya crisis, Suu Kyi was stripped of various honors and lost much of her international support. The Nobel committee was forced to issue a statement saying that her peace prize could not be revoked. Fellow Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai called on Suu Kyi to "stop the violence." Suu Kyi said that outsiders could not grasp the complexities of the situation. In 2020, Myanmar's ruling National League for Democracy party won the November 8 general election, with enough seats to form the next government. However, the military's proxy party, the Union Solidarity and Development party, claimed fraud and demanded a new election supervised by the military. With that came comments alluding to a possible coup. Supporters of the party also marched in protest. Myanmar's civilian leader, along with several of her political allies, were detained in an early morning raid on February 1, 2021 led by the military. The move came amid escalating tensions between the civilian government and army, which had been in control for decades.The junta claimed electoral fraud, announced a yearlong state of emergency and named a former general as acting president. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher Opponents have changed tactics, staging small, quick rallies before security forces can respond. People also gather at night for candle-lit vigils and hold "flower protests" to honor the dead. The United States and other Western countries have denounced the coup and called for the release of Suu Kyi. The UN Security Council on Thursday strongly condemned the death of hundreds of civilians and the use of violence against protesters. kmm/mm (Reuters, AP, epd) 