Albania's ruling Socialist Party (PS) was projected to narrowly win the parliamentary election with 46.9% of the vote, according to an exit poll published Sunday evening. However, a second poll suggested that the result was too close to call. The Top Channel poll predicted that the opposition Democratic Party (PD) was expected to come second with 43.5% of the vote, while the Socialist Integration Movement would come third with 6.9% of the vote. A separate poll for Euronews Albania from the MRB, part of the London-based Kantar Group, projected that the left-wing Socialists would win about 44% of the vote while the Democratic Party is expected to capture about 42%. Sunday's election took place aftera bitter campaign and violence between rival supporters, due to frustration with the politics and economy of the country, which is hoping to launch full membership talks with the EU later this year. The Balkan country with a population of 2.8 million has some 3.6 million voters due to its large diaspora Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama is seeking a third term for his Socialist Party. His campaign centered around promises of turning Albania into a "champion'' in tourism, energy, agriculture and digital projects. Rama's main contender was Lulzim Basha of the PD, who is seeking a return to power eight years after losing an election. Twelve other parties have united in a coalition behind Basha, who has accused the government of corruption and links to organized crime. The PD pledged lower taxes, higher salaries and more social financial support. Pre-election opinion polls had shown the PS was likely to place first. The election was closely watched by observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and Western embassies. Lulzim Basha, a 46-year-old lawyer and former mayor of Tirana, has held previous government posts Despite their division, all parties have vowed to deliver the needed reforms for Albania to fulfill its goal of joining the EU. The bloc agreed to open membership talks last year, but is yet to set a date for the first meeting. In 2014, Tirana was granted EU candidate status. Still, there has been little progress due to the coronavirus pandemic and lack of reforms within the country. The new government will also face the challenge of dealing with the pandemic and rebuilding homes after a 2019 earthquake that killed 51 people and damaged more than 11,400 properties. The earthquake hit shortly before shortly before 4 a.m. as people slept. Witnesses reported buildings partially collapsing around them as they woke up. Many people were trapped under the rubble when residential buildings in the towns of Thumane and Durres collapsed. One man in Kurbin died trying to escape a building by jumping out of the window. Rescue teams were racing to recover survivors, but the authorities described their work as "extremely difficult" due to high risk of more structures collapsing. The neighboring Kosovo, which also populated mostly by Albanians, sent a contigent of vehicles and emergency responders across the border. Other Balkan countries and the EU all pledged to deploy rescuers and equipment. By early afternoon, hundreds of people had been reported injured and scores were hospitalized. Soldiers were erecting hundreds of tents to house those who were left without safe homes. While only Albanian authorities were reporting causalities, the quake was felt all over the Balkan Peninsula, including northern Serbia, Greece, and Bulgaria. The 6.4-magnitude earthquake was the most powerful felt in the past 30 years, according to the Defense Ministry. Images of collapsed buildings suggested it may have been worse than the 1979 quake that razed a neighborhood of a northern town. The Balkan country is deeply divided, with rival political parties exchanging fiery remarks during a bitter election campaign. On Wednesday, a shooting that was linked to party activists left one person dead and four injured. The incident drew criticism from the US Embassy, which urged the country's main political leaders to "exercise restraint" and "to clearly reject violence" before the election. mvb, fb/mm (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) 