US Senate Republicans want to push back Donald Trump's impeachment hearings to mid-February, Mitch McConnell said on Thursday. The Senate minority leader is in agreement with the delay so as to give the former president time to prepare and review his case. House Democrats have signaled they want to move swiftly with proceedings but McConnell said: "Senate Republicans are strongly united behind the principle that the institution of the Senate, the office of the presidency, and former President Trump himself, all deserve a full and fair process that respects his rights and the serious factual, legal, and constitutional questions at stake." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oEsx The Senate's top Republican cited the unprecedented speed of the process with which the House of Representatives moved in impeaching Trump, who is accused of inciting a January 6 insurrection against Congress. Just moments before the violent mob attacked the Capitol, resulting in the deaths of five people, Trump held a rally near the White House, where he said: "We fight like hell and if you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore." Supporters of US President Donald Trump clash with police officers in front of the Capitol Building in Washington DC on January 6. Congress was holding a joint session to ratify President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College win over President Trump. Aggressive pro-Trump supporters rallied outside the US Capitol's Rotunda. Police tried to hold them back, but they breached security and forced their way into the building. An angry pro-Trump mob breaks into the US Capitol building on January 6, 2021, while Congress holds a joint session to ratify President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College win over President Trump. With guns drawn, US Capitol police officers watch as protesters try to break into the House Chamber, the inner-most room where legislators had convened to ratify the Electoral College vote. Security officials try to hold off the rioters in the hallway outside the Senate chamber as lawmakers on the other side of the door are rushed to safety. After breaking through Capitol security, a protester rushes to the middle of the Senate chamber and screams "Freedom." A rioter manages to break through security, and jumps from the public gallery to the floor of the Senate chamber. People frantically searched for shelter in the House gallery, as the protesters tried to break into the House chamber. According to a White House reporter on the House floor, people were given gas masks that were under the seats. Pro-Trump supporters took over the offices vacated by lawmakers who had been rushed to safety. Without police or security officials to hold them back, protesters walzed through the Rotunda and lawmaker's offices. This one carried away the lectern of Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. Security forces use tear gas on rioters rallying outside the US Capitol Building. An explosion caused by a police munition goes off while pro-Trump supporters rally in front of the US Capitol building. Washington police and the national guard have been deployed to disperse the protesters. Members of the National Guard and Washington DC police have been deployed to the Capitol to disperse protesters. A city-wide curfew went into effect from 6:00 pm to 6:00 am. Author: Kristin Zeier Like the previous two months, Trump maintained during the rally that the election had been stolen from him, despite there being no evidence to support his claim. As a result of his actions immediately prior to the attack on the Capitol, the Democrats want Trump barred from holding public office for life. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oGCR js/rc (AP, Reuters, dpa) 