Ten suspects in the 2016 Brussels terror attacks will stand trial, a Belgian court announced on Tuesday. The defendants include a French citizen who is the lone surviving suspect of the 2015 Paris attacks. They are expected to appear in a Belgian court in the second half of 2022, after a separate trial in France finishes. In 2016, suicide bombings in the Brussels subway and airport killed 32 people and injured hundreds of others. Three attackers — all Belgian nationals — died in the blasts. The Islamic State (IS) terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attack. Three other suspects had their charges dropped. Prosecutors had requested that eight of the 13 main defendants face the Criminal Court of Assizes — where the most serious crimes are tried — on charges of assassinations and attempted assassinations in a terrorism context, and for membership of a terror group. However, the Council Chamber referred all 10 people who were charged to allow just one trial to place on the matter. The Brandenburg gate in Berlin is illuminated in colors of the Belgian flag to show solidarity with Brussels in its time of crisis. Paris extended its support to the EU capital as the Eiffel Tower lit up in the colors of the Belgian flag. Belgian flags fly at half-mast in Belgium's capital Brussels after terrorists struck the city on Tuesday morning. Belgium's King Philippe addressed the nation after the attacks, calling for unity among all citizens. "Let us retain trust in ourselves," he said, adding that March 22 would be remembered as a day like no other. Officials released a video still of a suspect captured on camera at Brussels international airport. Travelers and employees are in a state of shock at the site of the first explosions. The toll continues to mount. The first of two explosions at Brussels Airport occurred shortly after 8 a.m. local time. The second blast at the airport caused the ceiling to cave in and pipes to burst. The building was evacuated, and the airport was shut down. A third blast hit the Maelbeek metro station. At midday official casualty figures for that attack were put at 15, with 55 injured and 10 of those in critical condition. Hospitals in Brussels have called on people to donate blood. Another explosion was heard in the city center at the Rue de La Loi. But DW's Doris Pundy says it was police detonating a suspicious device. The city (the Schuman roundabout is pictured) was locked down in fear of further attacks. The prime minister urged people to stay home. DW's offices were evacuated. As all roads and tunnels leading to the city center were shut down, life seemed to have come to a standstill. Hundreds of security personnel have been deployed in Brussels and all over Belgium. Germany has also increased security after the bombings. Author: Rina Goldenberg Among the 10, is Salah Abdeslam, who allegedly played a major role in the Paris attacks, as well as Mohamed Abrini, who walked away from Brussels' Zaventem airport after his explosives failed to detonate. Investigators suspect that the Brussels cell may have rushed into action earlier than planned, after the arrest of Abdeslam in Brussels in March 2016. Abdeslam, a French citizen, has already been sentenced to 20 years in prison in Belgium for injuring three police officers in a shootout before his arrest. Belgian police arrested Salah Abdeslam in March, 2016 The Court of Appeal will now decide whether the case will be heard by the Chamber for Indictments. "It will soon be five years that we've been waiting for things to move forward, to have results," Sylvie Ingels, who survived the attack on Zaventem airport, told Belgian broadcasters on Tuesday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2ZcRk aw/nm (AFP, AP, dpa)  