Police took several allies of the jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny into custody early on Thursday, ahead of planned demonstrations at the weekend. Aides of the opposition figures was the searches were linked to a criminal investigation launched by Russia's Interior Ministry. The probe was into alleged violations of coronavirus restrictions during protests last week, they added. The opposition has called for fresh demonstrations on Sunday to demand Navalny's freedom. The 44-year-old was arrested after returning to Russia from Germany, where he had been recovering from a poisoning attack. Those arrested include activist Maria Alyokhina from the punk band Pussy Riot, and Navalny's ophthalmologist Anastasia Vasilyeva, who is also head of the independent Doctors’ Alliance labor union. Vasilyeva appeared on social media playing the piano as police raided her apartment. Navalny's team said his brother Oleg as well as his ally Lyubov Sobol were also detained. Meanwhile, a Moscow court on Thursday rejected an appeal from Navalny's legal team against his 30-day pretrial detention, after he told a judge that he had not been allowed a one-to-one meeting with his defense lawyer since being arresed upon his return to Russia. The judge gave Navalny five minutes to speak to his lawyer via video link, with prison guards asked to leave the room so that he could talk privately. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oWrS Navalny also attended the court hearing from prison through a video link. During the hearing, Navalny criticized what he described as the "lawlessness" of the process. "This is blatant lawlessness to intimidate myself and other people," he told the court. "You won't succeed in frightening us. We are the majority... I'm happy that more and more people understand that the law is on our side, that we're in the right," he said. The lawyer-turned-political campaigner has been among the most prominent figures of Russia's opposition to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny came to prominence in 2008, when his blog exposing malpractice in Russian politics and among the country's major state-owned companies came to public attention. Revelations published on his blog even led to resignations, a rarity in Russian politics. In 2011 Navalny was arrested for the first time. He ended up spending 15 days in prison for his role at a rally outside the State Duma in Moscow. A recent parliamentary election victory for Putin's United Russia had been marred by instances of ballot stuffing, reported by demonstrators on social media. Upon his release, Navalny pledged to continue the protest movement. After being reelected president in 2012, Putin ordered Russia's Investigative Committee to launch a criminal inquiry into Navalny's past. The following year the campaigner was charged and sentenced again, this time for five years, for alleged embezzlement in the city of Kirov. However, he was released the following day pending affirmation from a higher court. The sentence was later suspended. Despite being embroiled in legal troubles, Navalny was allowed to run in the 2013 Moscow mayoral election. A second-place finish behind Putin ally Sergei Sobyanin was seen as an overwhelming success and galvanized the Russian opposition movement. His anti-Kremlin rhetoric led Navalny to be banned from appearing on Russian state-owned television. That forced him to deliver his political message over social media and his blog. His talent for public speaking, punchy use of language and humorous mockery of Putin and his loyalists mobilized a legion of young followers. In December 2016, the opposition leader announced the formal start of his campaign to run for the Russian presidency in March 2018. However, repeated accusations of corruption, which his supporters say are politically motivated, ultimately barred him from running for public office. In 2016 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia had violated Navalny's right to a fair trial in the Kirov case. Although Russia's Supreme Court overturned the five-year sentence, the verdict was sent back to the Kirov court. In 2017, this court again handed Navalny a suspended five-year sentence. In February 2017, anti-corruption rallies across dozens of Russian cities led to the arrests of over 1,000 demonstrators, including Navalny. The protests, believed to have been the largest in the Russian capital since 2012, were spurred by a report published by Navalny linking Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to a property empire valued at billions of euros. Navalny was released 15 days later. Navalny was assaulted and hospitalized in April 2017 after being hit in the eye with a chemical green dye. The attack permanently damaged his right cornea. Navalny accused Russian authorities of stopping him from seeking medical treatment abroad due to the embezzlement conviction against him. He was eventually permitted by the Kremlin human rights council to travel to Spain for eye surgery. In 2018, Navalny was jailed for 30 days. After his release in September, he faced another 20-day stint. In April 2019, the European Court of Human Rights ruled Russia had violated Navalny's rights by holding him under house arrest for most of 2014 during the Kirov embezzlement case. In July 2019, only weeks after being released from a 10-day jail sentence, Navalny was again jailed for 30 days for violating Russia's strict protest laws. The opposition leader accused Russia of poisoning him with an allergic agent while in jail. Using YouTube and social media, Navalny had amassed a following of millions by late December 2019. Then police raided his Anti-Corruption Foundation headquarters (above), detaining him in the process. His staff said officials wanted to confiscate their tech equipment. Just a few months later, in March, Navalny reported that his bank accounts and those of his family members had been frozen. On August 20, Navalny's spokesperson announced the activist became violently ill during a flight from Siberia to Moscow. The plane made an emergency landing, and Navalny was rushed to a hospital in Russia's Omsk and later evacuated to Berlin's Charite clinic (above). Doctors said he was in a coma. Navalny's associates claimed he had been poisoned and pointed to previous attacks on the activist. Navalny was taken out of the coma less than three weeks later and was said to be responsive. Not long afterwards, he was posting on Instagram, saying he was slowly regaining strength following weeks of only being "technically alive." The German government said labs in France and Sweden both confirmed that Navalny had been poisoned with the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok. Months later, Navalny released the recording of a phone call he made to a man he said was a member of Russia's Federal Security Service, whose headquarters is pictured above. The alleged agent said he was not directly involved in poisoning Navalny, but deeply involved with efforts to clean up any traces of Novichok. Moscow dismissed the recording as fake. Navalny had promised to return to Russia and he did so, despite warnings that he would be arrested. He was taken into police custody shortly after arriving in Moscow. The dissident, seen here at a police station, had said he was "not afraid of anything." He was sentenced to 30 days in prison at a swiftly convened trial the following day. Author: David Martin "We'll never allow ... these people to seize and steal our country. Yes, brute force is on your side now. You can...put me in handcuffs. [But] that will not continue forever." A makeshift court at a police station last week ordered Navalny placed in custody until February 15. He was then moved to Moscow's Matrosskaya Tishina, a high-security detention center. Whether a previous suspended sentence will be converted into a prison term, as prosecutors are calling for, will be decided in another hearing on Tuesday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oPcw Police on Wednesday raided apartments and offices belonging to Navalny and his associates. It is reported that Navalny's wife Yulia was in one of the apartments and his brother in another. Police also raided two offices belonging to Navalny's FBK anti-corruption organization. It was FBK that published a video last week of a luxury Black Sea property that Navalny claimed was owned by Russian President Vladimir Putin and funded through an elaborate corruption scheme. Several social media users posted images and video of police breaking down doors at the apartments as well as the offices. One user posted video of "special units breaking down the door to the 'Navalny Live' studio." Navalny is accused by Russian prosecutors of breaking the terms of the sentence by traveling to Germany. He had been in a coma from the Novichok attack when he was taken to Berlin.  