Pakistan on Saturday arrested an alleged leader of the militant group that orchestrated the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks in India. An official from Pakistan's counterterrorism authority, Shakil Ahmed, said that Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi was intercepted in the eastern city of Lahore on charges of financing terrorism. Lakhvi is the purported leader of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) jihadist organization that was blamed for the Mumbai attacks, which took place across fours days in November 2008. The militant group is accused of carrying out 12 coordinated shootings and bombings that resulted in the deaths of more than 160 people, with hundreds more wounded. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/38urb Pakistani authorities accuse Lakhvi of running a dispensary in Lahore as a cover for financing terrorism. Lakhvi was a prominent figure in Hafiz Saeed's charity Jamaat-ud-Dawa, which is believed to be a front for LeT. Radical cleric Saeed is a designated terrorist in the United States, where there's a $10-million (€8.24-million) bounty on his head. He is currently serving multiple jail terms in Pakistan after being convicted in several cases in recent months. Saeed has denied any involvement in the Mumbai attacks and insists his organization — which runs schools, seminaries, hospitals and ambulance services — has no links to terrorism. The Mumbai attacks increased long-held tensions between India and Pakistan. The two countries have fought two wars since gaining independence from Britain in 1947 and relations between the pair have been defined by the violent partition of British India — which started the Kashmir conflict — ever since. Ghulam Mohiuddin is in his late 70s, but he still works every day in his small workshop in Srinagar's Rainawari district, producing and repairing small hospital tools made of iron. Through years of practice, he can make replicas of many small tools used in hospitals. During the reign of Maharaja Hari Singh when Kashmir was a kingdom in the 1940s, Germans manufactured medical equipment. Mohiuddin's family members could repair the German-made equipment perfectly, and impressed German craftsmen at the time. Singh named the craftsmen German Khars (blacksmiths) for their expertise in repairing the equipment, which no one else could do in Kashmir. Mohiuddin is seen here making a pair of forceps by hand. It will take him a week to produce and should fetch around €40 ($49). This tool will be used during surgery at a hospital in India-administered Kashmir's largest city, Srinagar. Mohiuddin says despite earning little money, he continues to work on his craft to help people. "I make this equipment because its saves lives, otherwise I would have left the work," he said, adding he has tried to hire helpers, but they are not patient enough for the craft. In the 1940s, a German hospital administrator in Srinigar wrote a letter to Mohiuddin's father, praising the work as "so perfect that one cannot tell which is real and which is the replica. His work is extremely thorough and precise." Mohiuddin and his brothers learned the craft from their father and grandfather. Today, he is the last of his seven brothers who still works as a craftsman, and he fears no one will continue the work when is he gone. Producing replicas of hospital tools is hard work that requires a lot of skill and patience for little pay. "It is my passion to keep doing this work," he said. Author: Rifat Fareed (Srinagar) jsi/nm (AP, Reuters, dpa, epd) 