Onome Ebi is one of Nigeria's most accomplished and famous female footballers. She has played in five World Cups — the only African player to do so — and is the one Nigerian player that most fans want their photograph taken with. But like most African superstar athletes, she came from humble beginnings. She started life in a slum community in the Nigerian capital of Lagos but has gone on to beat the odds and enjoy a thriving career in Europe and, most recently, China. "I started playing football when I was in my mom's womb... I was so little when I started!" exclaims Ebi, who played the game just for fun as a child until her first coach discovered her talent and advised her to pursue a professional career. 'Society doesn't want women to play football' Despite having a mentor by her side, Ebi found it hard to establish herself as a female footballer in a country where it isn't considered a traditional or legitimate career path — and her coach had to convince her parents that they should allow her to play. "Our parents don't want women to play," Ebi said. "Society as a whole doesn't want women to play. People think that football is for men and women are supposed to just get married and feed the children." Onome Ebi has represented Nigeria 81 times — but is still waiting for her first goal. Perspectives are slowly changing but it's still rare to see older women playing football. Every morning when Ebi goes out to train, she's usually the only female among the men. Not only does she have to work extra hard to gain recognition as a woman in a male-dominated sport, but she also has to defend her ability to still play at the age of 37. But she remains very athletic and her experience and speed still outshines many of the younger players coming through.  Ebi's foundation and Common Goal Ebi hopes to make her sixth appearance at the next World Cup in 2023. And although she is still playing, her club career was slowed down last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She was unable to return to her club for the last league season as a result of the lockdowns in Nigeria and China. Meanwhile in Nigeria, she is always looking for new ways to give back through charity and community initiatives. Ebi has a foundation that is focused primarily on helping young girls who want to play football professionally and she is involved in supporting Nigeria's struggling female football league. Beyond her personal foundation, Ebi also donates 1% of her income to Common Goal, an initiative that supports high-impact NGOs that use football to drive progress towards the Global Goals. Time to give back Through Common Goal, Ebi discovered that YEDI (Youth Empowerment Development Initiative) was operating in Lagos on projects she seeks to support, including raising awareness among young people on health topics, like AIDS. Ebi agreed to join YEDI on one of their rural outreaches and when she arrived at the location and met the girls, her heart melted. Off the field, many people may not recognize Ebi. The girls had never heard about her before but they were happy to see her, and after the outreach session Ebi gave them a group hug. She also presented them with gifts and assured them that they can achieve whatever they want to, regardless of their background. "Being here today really reminds me of my childhood," Ebi said as she smiled and watched the little children playing. "It's just like I've gone back to being a child again. I loved the experience I had talking to the girls, I'm glad I had the opportunity to come here today." Ebi may have achieved so much in her own career, but now it's time to give back. "I want to help to change the world, even if only in some small way," wrote Manchester United's Spanish midfielder Juan Mata when launching his "Common Goal" initiative. "And I hope that other footballers around the world will help me in this goal." The 2010 World Cup winner is therefore donating one per cent of his salary to "Streetworldfootball" - a initiative founded in 2002 which supports 120 football aid projects for disadvantaged young people in 80 countries. And Mata's call didn't go unheeded ... United States internationals Heather O'Reily, Megan Rapinoe and Alex Morgan were among the first footballers to support Mata's project. "Alex and I felt it was important that women's football was represented right from the outset," said Rapinoe who, along with her teammates, won the World Cup in 2015. Next to answer the "Common Goal" call was Champions League winner Pauline Bremer (seen here with the cup). The German international, who transfered from Olympique Lyon to Manchester City in the summer, has been an ambassador for Streetworldfootball since October 2016. Bayern Munich center back Mats Hummels became the first Bundesliga player to support the initiative when he joined in August. "I feel we can do more to give some meaning to the ever-increasing salaries in football," said the 2014 German World Cup winner who, like Mata, is donating one per cent of his earnings to Common Goal. Stuttgart's Dennis Aogo is donating two per cent of his salary. "It's not to look fashionable and it's not to look cool," said the former Germany international. "It's about helping people." Germany's coaches are also represented in the form of Julian Nagelsmann. "Let's be honest," said the Hoffenheim boss, "for those of us who make a lot of money in this industry, one per cent is not a problem." German international Serge Gnabry is on loan to Hoffenheim from Bayern and, like Mats Hummels, also referred to the spiralling transfer fees and wages in modern football. "I want the game to be used for good," he said. "That's why I'm joining Common Goal." Juan Mata's former Manchester United teammate Shinji Kagawa said he is taking part in Common Goal so that other people can benefit from the potential of football. "Football has taught me many things," said the Borussia Dortmund midfielder. "It gives me hope and helps me look outside the box." International stars such as Giorgio Chiellini are also getting involved. "As footballers, we find ourselves in a privileged position compared to other people in society," said the Juventus and Italy defender. "It's important to bear that in mind and try to support others." Hasan Ali Kaldirim became the first Turkish footballer to join Common Goal. "When we work together, football can have a great and lasting effect all over the world," said the German-born Turkey international who currently plays for Fenerbahce. Author: Stefan Nestler