RB Leipzig vs. Borussia Dortmund, Red Bull Arena (kickoff 18:30 CET) Hello and welcome to DW's live coverage of this Bundesliga Matchday 15 blockbuster between RB Leipzig and Borussia Dortmund. Our blog goes live one-hour before kick-off, until then feel free to peruse through our pre-match talking points. Read more: Marco Rose focused on Bayern despite Dortmund rumors While Dortmund are back to almost full strength – only Jude Bellingham and Thorgan Hazard are doubtful – RB Leipzig have a few injury problems to contend with. Benjamin Henrichs, Christopher Nkunku, Ibrahima Konate and Nordi Mukiele are all out, while Justin Kluivert remains a doubt after missing the last three games. And with Konrad Laimer out for the season with a knee problem, coach Julian Nagelsmann has had to rely on reinforcements of late. However, new Leipzig signing Dominik Szoboszlai will be included in the Leipzig squad fort he first time following his move from Leipzig's sister club RB Salzburg. This will be the sides‘ ninth meeting, with the scales tipped in Dortmund's favor in their previous meetings. Dortmund have won four times, Leipzig twice, with two draws. Perhaps more tellingly, Dortmund have had the better of their recent encounters, with Leipzig winless against Dortmund in their last five attempts. Leipzig's last win against BVB came in October 2017. The 22-year-old forward is starting to find his feet at RB Leipzig coming the fore under Julian Nagelsmann in recently months. Olmo scored the only goal in Leipzig's last game – a 1-0 win at Stuttgart – and has five assists to his name already this season. Dortmund need to be wary of the threat the Spaniard possesses. Dani Olmo has established himself as a regular starter in the Leipzig team. RB Leipzig have kept a clean sheet in their last four Bundesliga matches. "I think it's really important that we continue with the good defensive performances that we've shown recently. That will be an important key to success. My team has unbelievable character and incredible willpower. I get the feeling that that's not going away any time soon." "January sets the trend for the rest of the Bundesliga season. You can quickly influence the table situation against direct competitors, which is why the match on Saturday is very important." Gulacsi – Adams, Orban, Upamecano, Halstenburg – Olmo, Kampl, Sabitzer – Haidara, Forsberg, Angelino Bürki – Meunier, Akanji, Hummels, Guerreiro – Delaney, Witsel – Sancho, Reus, Reyna – Haaland