A worker trapped in a Chinese gold mine has died as rescuers scrambled to save 21 others who have been stuck underground for nearly two weeks, state media reported on Thursday. Rescuers have been in contact with 11 workers trapped in one chamber and have delivered food, medicine and other supplies to them. The workers have been stranded hundreds of meters underground at the Hushan mine near Qixia city in east China's Shandong province after a January 10 explosion sealed the entrance and cut off communications. State media said one of them had suffered a head injury in the initial explosion and fell into a coma before dying. Two other workers in the group were described as being in poor health. Another is believed to be trapped on his own, 100 meters (330 feet) further down in rising waters, but his condition is unknown and rescue teams have not reached him. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oBOL The condition of another 10 workers remains unknown. "They have also been lowering life detectors and nutrient solutions to other sections to locate the other missing miners but continue to receive no life signs," state news agency Xinhua reported. Rescuers made contact on Sunday with the first group of miners at a site around 580 meters (1,900 feet) below the surface. They were attempting to clear cages, skips and other debris blocking the main shaft while drilling other shafts for communication, ventilation and possibly to lift workers to the surface. Emergency responders have drilled two "lifeline" channels to deliver materials to the miners and installed a telephone line while trying to widen a shaft to eventually allow the miners to be extracted. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3o7or The managers of the mine have been detained for waiting more than a day to report the accident, the cause of which has not yet been announced. Meanwhile, both the local Communist Party secretary and the mayor have been dismissed over the 30-hour delay and an official investigation is underway to determine the cause of the explosion. Recent improved regulations have boosted safety in China's mining industry, which used to see an average of 5,000 deaths per year. However, accidents are still common, and many mines still cut safety corners. In December, 23 workers died after getting stuck underground in a coal mine in Chongqing. Over the past 16 months, close to 20 people have died during various mining accidents in the Georgian town of Tkibuli. "If there were a chance to find another job in this town, nobody would work at the mine," says Gocha Gabunia. While few of his young peers share his attitude, 20-year-old David Tsnobiladze sees his job as a continuation of a family tradition and actually loves to work here. "It's a difficlut job, but I learn something new every day." Tsnobiladze is aware of the dangers of working at the Mindeli mine in Tkibuli. He's been there for two years. His father has worked here for 20 years, while his grandfather was here for 34 years. "The mine is the main part of the town, it's the spine," says David. The latest accident at the mine in July of this year was caused by a build-up of pressure eventually leading to an explosion. Four people died and six were injured. Unions renewed their calls to improve the miners' safety, as they had done after previous accidents. Miner David Kublashvili, 38, waits to enter the Mindeli mine for yet another day underground. During the Soviet era, there were four mines in Tkibuli, and there were textile workshops plus other businesses. But those times are gone. Although retired worker Guram Gamezardashvili lost his son during an accident in the mine earlier this year and got severely injured himself in 2010, he doesn't want the mine to shut down. "Closing the mine is no solution — so many people would starve if that happened." Author: Hardy Graupner (with Reuters)   lc/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters)