The world's biggest carmakers, including Toyota and Volkswagen, have been forced to halt or slow production as a global shortage of computer chips cripples auto part suppliers in the latest blow dealt to the car industry by the coronavirus pandemic. Soaring demand for smartphones, gaming consoles, tabs and other electronics by homebound consumers has prompted semiconductor makers to divert capacity away from the auto industry, leaving car parts suppliers like Bosch and Continental struggling to keep their customers supplied. The shortage of chips, which have become a crucial component in modern-day cars equipped with features such as touch screens, navigation systems and Bluetooth connectivity, is the latest blow to the global auto industry by the coronavirus pandemic, which shuttered factories and showrooms leading to a record drop in sales in spring last year. "After the industry shut down in the early phase of the crisis and the resulting abrupt drop in demand, automobile manufacturers across all regions increased their production volumes much faster than expected by market experts. This resulted in large scale supply shortages for semiconductors," a Continental spokesperson told DW. "With lead times of six to nine months, the semiconductor industry has not been able to scale up fast enough to meet this unexpected growth in automotive demand," she said, attributing the problem to the overbooking at silicon foundries from other industries like consumer electronics. Tesla has emerged as the most valuable automaker amid the pandemic, eclipsing Toyota and Volkswagen, despite selling only a fraction of cars sold by the traditional behemoths. Tesla shares rose more than 100% in the second quarter during which the carmaker's sales topped estimates thanks to a rapid ramp-up in production at its Shanghai plant, which remained largely unaffected by the pandemic. Netflix has added more than 25 million subscribers in the first six months of the year as lockdowns forced people to stay homebound. The streaming platform has gained $70 billion (€61 billion) in market capitalization this year, making it more valuable than media giants such as Walt Disney, AT&T, the parent of HBO, and Comcast, owner of NBC and Universal Studios. The fitness startup Peloton, which makes exercise bikes and also offers online fitness classes, saw its sales jump 66% in its third quarter as stay-at-home orders and coronavirus fears prompted many fitness enthusiasts to ditch their gyms and opt for the company's offerings. In April, Peloton held its largest class ever with more than 23,000 people attending it from home. Moderna Chief Executive Stephane Bancel (R) briefly became a billionaire after the company shipped an experimental coronavirus vaccine for clinical testing in humans, boosting its share price, Bloomberg reported. Malaysia's Lim Wee Chai (L), who owns a majority stake in medical gloves maker Top Glove, also entered the billionaire's club amid the outbreak. Few companies have been so talked about during the past few months as teleconferencing firm Zoom. At its peak, the company attracted more than 300 million participants on some days in April, up from 10 million in December, despite some PR troubles around privacy and security issues. The company's market cap has zoomed past $70 billion, up from around $16 billion at the time of its IPO last year. Gaming provided a perfect escape for millions stuck at home. Online games such as Call of Duty attracted tens of millions of players. The latest game, Nintendo's popular Animal Crossing franchise, sold more than 13 million units within six weeks of its launch in March. Nintendo's Switch and other consoles such as Xbox and PlayStation have seen demand soar over the past few months. The Swedish music streaming firm saw its paid subscribers base surge to 130 million in the first quarter amid coronavirus lockdowns. The company saw usage on video game consoles such as Xbox and PlayStation soar during the period. Spotify's US-listed shares are among the top performers so far this year. The pandemic has boosted stay-at-home stocks such as Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook — companies whose offerings facilitate online communication, remote working and transactions. These companies have been the main drivers of US indices over the past few months. Companies like Paypal and cloud-computing firm Twilio have also surged in the past months. Retailers such as Germany's Rewe and France's Carrefour saw food items fly off their shelves during the initial days of the pandemic as panicking shoppers stock up their pantries. The rush at the supermarkets prompted investors to lap up shares of packaged food companies. Online retailers like Amazon are also seeing strong demand as virus-spooked shoppers avoid brick-and-mortar stores. Makers of face masks, hand sanitizers and sanitary wipes are witnessing a huge surge in demand as shoppers around the world seek ways to protect themselves against the rapidly spreading virus. 3M Corp, which makes face masks among other things, is one of the biggest beneficiaries. Author: Ashutosh Pandey German carmaker Volkswagen told DW that the chip shortage had affected production at its plants in China, North America and Europe. The company is curbing production at its Wolfsburg plant — the world's largest single car-manufacturing complex — on several days in January. VW has also applied for short-time work for the affected employees working on two production lines of the Tiguan, Touran and Tarraco, it said in a statement. Daimler said it was "adapting" production at its Mercedes-Benz plant in Germany's Rastatt. The carmaker told DW it was too early to quantify the impact. BMW said the chip shortage had not led to any interruptions in production so far. Bosch, the world's largest car parts supplier, told DW it "cannot divorce itself from this trend." Bosch rival Continental said it was forced to ask its customers to "adapt their production or adjust their product mix in specific cases." Renault, Honda, Ford, Nissan and Fiat Chrysler are also grappling with a shortage of semiconductors. Global auto sales have seen a swift recovery, driven by strong demand for premium cars in China, the world's biggest automobile market. Chinese car sales fell 6.8% last year, a spectacular recovery after having slumped 80% in February. "The business came back much faster than we thought," Kurt Sievers, the CEO of Dutch automotive chip supplier NXP Semiconductors, told German business daily Handelsblatt last month. NXP Semiconductors has told customers it would have to raise prices on all products because of the chip shortage and a rise in materials costs, Reuters news agency reported. The auto industry is known to be down in the pecking order as far as chipmakers are concerned. They favor consumer electronics companies, such as Apple, as their orders are larger and they pay better. Making matters worse for the carmakers is the fact that chip foundries such as Taiwan Semiconductor (TSMC), United Microelectronics and Globalfoundries, which supply to NXP and other automotive chip companies such as Germany's Infineon Technologies, are struggling to meet the demand even from their prime customers. iPhone maker Apple and video game console companies Sony and Microsoft have also been left scrambling for semiconductors. The problem has been compounded by a US ban on China's top chipmaker SMIC and bulk buying by Huawei ahead of mid-September when its suppliers had to comply with US sanctions, Reuters reported. "Future investment in these foundries will therefore be critical so that the automotive industry can avoid such supply chain upheavals in the future," Continental's spokeswoman said in a statement. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3iCAW "The bottlenecks from the semiconductor industry are expected to continue well into 2021, causing major disruptions in Continental's production," she said. VW expects the situation to improve from the second quarter at the earliest. Paul Lund, senior director at Fitch Ratings, says he expects the problem to continue for roughly six months to allow for chip manufacturers to increase the supply. "The semiconductor industry is known for its high fixed costs, and it cannot flex production upwards easily — it requires time and investment to restart lines," he told DW. "A further issue is that as new car models are introduced, they have a higher level of technology content in terms of in-car entertainment, drive and safety systems, increasing demand for semiconductors." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3TzKz