Former US President Donald Trump's impeachment trial will begin in the week of February 8, US Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer announced on Friday. "The Senate will conduct a trial of the impeachment of Donald Trump. It will be a full trial. It will be a fair trial," Schumer said. The top Democratic leader in the Senate announced the schedule after reaching an agreement with Republicans. According to the timeline, US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will send the article of impeachment to the Senate on Monday, triggering the start of the former president's trial on the charge of "incitement of insurrection" over the deadly riot at the US capitol on January 6. The initial proceeding will begin Tuesday, and Trump's legal team will have time to prepare the case before opening arguments begin in February. The timeline amounts to a two-week delay and allows the Senate to conduct normal business as a new administration takes charge. The chamber will use this time to carry out confirmation votes of President Joe Biden's cabinet nominations and start work on a massive coronavirus relief package, Schumer said. Trump became the first president in US history to be impeached twice and his impeachment trial will be the first one to take place after the president has left office. The former president was impeached for inciting a mob of his angry supporters who ransacked the US Capitol building in an attempt to overturn the results presidential election, which Trump falsely claimed was "stolen." Supporters of US President Donald Trump clash with police officers in front of the Capitol Building in Washington DC on January 6. Congress was holding a joint session to ratify President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College win over President Trump. Aggressive pro-Trump supporters rallied outside the US Capitol's Rotunda. Police tried to hold them back, but they breached security and forced their way into the building. An angry pro-Trump mob breaks into the US Capitol building on January 6, 2021, while Congress holds a joint session to ratify President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College win over President Trump. With guns drawn, US Capitol police officers watch as protesters try to break into the House Chamber, the inner-most room where legislators had convened to ratify the Electoral College vote. Security officials try to hold off the rioters in the hallway outside the Senate chamber as lawmakers on the other side of the door are rushed to safety. After breaking through Capitol security, a protester rushes to the middle of the Senate chamber and screams "Freedom." A rioter manages to break through security, and jumps from the public gallery to the floor of the Senate chamber. People frantically searched for shelter in the House gallery, as the protesters tried to break into the House chamber. According to a White House reporter on the House floor, people were given gas masks that were under the seats. Pro-Trump supporters took over the offices vacated by lawmakers who had been rushed to safety. Without police or security officials to hold them back, protesters walzed through the Rotunda and lawmaker's offices. This one carried away the lectern of Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. Security forces use tear gas on rioters rallying outside the US Capitol Building. An explosion caused by a police munition goes off while pro-Trump supporters rally in front of the US Capitol building. Washington police and the national guard have been deployed to disperse the protesters. Members of the National Guard and Washington DC police have been deployed to the Capitol to disperse protesters. A city-wide curfew went into effect from 6:00 pm to 6:00 am. Author: Kristin Zeier Senate Republicans wanted to push back Trump's impeachment hearings to mid-February but the request was rejected by the Democrats who now control the chamber. The Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell wanted the delay so as to give the former president time to prepare his pre-trial defense. "Senate Republicans are strongly united behind the principle that the institution of the Senate, the office of the presidency, and former President Trump himself, all deserve a full and fair process that respects his rights and the serious factual, legal, and constitutional questions at stake," McConnell said on Thursday. House Democrats, on the other hand, have signaled they want to move swiftly with proceedings. The current timeline is a compromise between the two sides. A McConnell aide said the trial could begin as soon as February 9 — a Tuesday — and that McConnell was pleased Democrats had given Trump's defense more time. "This is a win for due process and fairness," a McConnell spokesman said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3o6Jv adi/aw (AP, AFP, Reuters,) 