US President Donald Trump told reporters on Tuesday that there was "tremendous anger" over efforts to impeach him for his role in inciting the deadly attack on the US Capitol. He also did not take responsibility for encouraging his supporters to march on the building as lawmakers were certifying President-elect Joe Biden's win. When asked about whether he bears responsibility for the violence, the president said his remarks at a rally proceeding the storming of the building were "totally appropriate." "They've analyzed my speech in my words and my final paragraph, my final sentence, and everybody to the tee just thought it was totally appropriate," the president said prior to a trip to Texas. Last Wednesday, Trump addressed a crowd of his supporters at a rally in Washington, imploring them to "fight'' and show "strength" to stop the "steal" of the election. He encouraged them to march on the Capitol just minutes before the crowd stormed the building. While rioters were still inside, he released a video telling the mob to go home while also appearing to downplay the violence. Addressing the rioters, he said: "We love you. You're very special." In the months leading up to the riot, Trump also repeated false claims that there was widespread election fraud. His remarks to reporters on Tuesday were the first he's delivered since a mob of his supporters stormed the US Capitol last week, leaving five dead. Trump also hit back at the latest bid to impeach him — this time for inciting last week's violence. "To continue on this path, I think it's causing tremendous danger to our country, and it's causing tremendous anger," he said, adding: "I want no violence." He also voiced anger at Big Tech companies after Twitter and Facebook banned him on their platforms for encouraging violence. He said the companies had made a "terrible mistake," accusing them of "dividing" the country. After Trump arrived in Texas later Tuesday to visit the southern border wall with Mexico, he dismissed efforts to remove him from office early. "The 25th Amendment is of zero risk to me," Trump said, referring to the constitutional amendment that enables a president's Cabinet to remove them if deemed unable to fulfill their duties. Supporters of US President Donald Trump clash with police officers in front of the Capitol Building in Washington DC on January 6. Congress was holding a joint session to ratify President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College win over President Trump. Aggressive pro-Trump supporters rallied outside the US Capitol's Rotunda. Police tried to hold them back, but they breached security and forced their way into the building. An angry pro-Trump mob breaks into the US Capitol building on January 6, 2021, while Congress holds a joint session to ratify President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College win over President Trump. With guns drawn, US Capitol police officers watch as protesters try to break into the House Chamber, the inner-most room where legislators had convened to ratify the Electoral College vote. Security officials try to hold off the rioters in the hallway outside the Senate chamber as lawmakers on the other side of the door are rushed to safety. After breaking through Capitol security, a protester rushes to the middle of the Senate chamber and screams "Freedom." A rioter manages to break through security, and jumps from the public gallery to the floor of the Senate chamber. People frantically searched for shelter in the House gallery, as the protesters tried to break into the House chamber. According to a White House reporter on the House floor, people were given gas masks that were under the seats. Pro-Trump supporters took over the offices vacated by lawmakers who had been rushed to safety. Without police or security officials to hold them back, protesters walzed through the Rotunda and lawmaker's offices. This one carried away the lectern of Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. Security forces use tear gas on rioters rallying outside the US Capitol Building. An explosion caused by a police munition goes off while pro-Trump supporters rally in front of the US Capitol building. Washington police and the national guard have been deployed to disperse the protesters. Members of the National Guard and Washington DC police have been deployed to the Capitol to disperse protesters. A city-wide curfew went into effect from 6:00 pm to 6:00 am. Author: Kristin Zeier Trump warned that the amendment "will come back to haunt Joe Biden and the Biden administration," without further explanation. Lawmakers in the House of Representatives will reconvene on Tuesday to vote on a bid to remove Trump from office early. The resolution calls on Vice President Mike Pence to invoke the 25th Amendment, which declares a president unable to serve. Pence is not expected to take action, meaning the Democrat-majority House would then move to impeach Trump for a second time. On Monday, lawmakers introduced an impeachment resolution charging the president with "incitement of insurrection." They are expected to begin debating the impeachment measure on Wednesday. Biden is due to be sworn into office on January 20, with the FBI warning of potential armed protests in the nation's capital and other states by Trump supporters. rs/rt (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa)  