Hong Kong's government declared its first lockdown on Saturday, ordering thousands of people to stay in their homes as authorities tackled an ongoing outbreak of the coronavirus in one of the city's poorest and most densely populated districts. The lockdown affects 10,000 people living in the Jordan neighborhood in Kowloon. Authorities said they planned to test everyone in the designated zone within 48 hours, and the residents will not be allowed to leave unless they can show a negative test. "Residents will have to stay at their premises to avoid cross-infection until they get their test results," Health Minister Sophia Chan told reporters on Saturday. Severe reaction to Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine is "rare," US health authorities have found, with only 10 cases of anaphylactic shock among a reported 4,041,396 first doses administered between December 21 and January 10. Based on this early monitoring, anaphylaxis after receipt of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine appears to be a rare event," the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a report. The numbers represent 2.5 cases of anaphylactic shock per one million Moderna injections, compared with 11.1 cases per one million BioNTech-Pfizer injections, according to the CDC study. Pfizer-BioNTech will ship the first 40 million coronavirus vaccines to poorer nations next month on a non-profit basis, through the globally-pooled COVAX facility. The World Health Organization's COVAX scheme is aimed at 20% of vulnerable populations this year. "We can only end the pandemic anywhere if we end it everywhere," said WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3noBf Cuba and Panama have both detected their first cases of the coronavirus variant from South Africa. In Panama, a 40-year-old man from Botswana who had come from South Africa tested positive for the variant. He had been isolated since entering the Caribbean country on January 5. In Cuba, a traveler who had been in South Africa was found with the variant but reported no symptoms. Those he came into contact with have tested negative, health authorities said, but added that the disease in its mutated form could already be spreading in Cuba. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau warned his citizens not to travel abroad, saying further coronavirus restrictions may be announced that would make it harder to reenter the country. "People should not be planning on nonessential travel or vacation travel outside of the country, particularly because ... we could be bringing in new measures that significantly impede your ability to return to Canada at any given moment without warning," Trudeau said. He said one option was to make it mandatory for people to quarantine in a hotel at their own expense when they arrive in Canada. Canada closed its borders to most nonessential travelers last March and required incoming travelers to quarantine for 14 days. US President Joe Biden said "well over 600,000" Americans could die from COVID-19 as he stepped up federal aid. "The virus is surging. We're at 400,000 dead, expected to reach well over 600,000," Biden told a news conference, giving his highest estimate yet for the US outbreak's eventual toll. He urged Congress to move fast on his $1.9-trillion plan to battle COVID-19 and provide economic relief to struggling Americans. French President Emmanuel Macron tested positive for the virus on December 17. Following the diagnosis, he canceled all of his upcoming trips, including one to Lebanon, and said he would self-isolate for seven days. French Prime Minsiter Jean Castex was also set to isolate after coming into contact with Macron. Polish President Andrzej Duda tested positive for coronavirus in October, as the country was facing surge in new infections. Duda, an ally of the ruling nationalist Law and Justice Party, was "feeling fine" at the time of the diagnosis. The day before officials announced his infection, the number of new cases in the country of 38 million hit a daily record of more than 13,600. Donald Trump, who once said COVID-19 tests were "beautiful," tested positive for the coronavirus, along with his wife Melania, soon after senior aide Hope Hicks also contracted the virus. The infection came less than a month before November's presidential elections in the US. Prime Minister of Eswatini Ambrose Dlamini died at the age of 52 after contracting coronavirus. He was the first sitting leader to succumb to the virus. Former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing died aged 94 on December 2 after contracting COVID-19. During his rule, he legalized abortion and brought the country high-speed trains. He also promoted cooperation among European nations, especially in tandem with the former West Germany, forging a strong rapport with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. The 83-year-old former Italian premier tested positive for the virus and is believed to be asymptomatic, his party announced on September 2. Two of Berlusconi's children as well as his 30-year-old girlfriend are also COVID-19 positive. The ex-premier tested positive after vacationing along Sardinia's coastline, where Italy's rich and famous have been known to flaunt mask policies. Brazil's president, who has repeatedly downplayed the severity of the pandemic, contracted the virus in July. He was criticized for ignoring the safety measures recommended by health experts both before and after his diagnosis, including shaking hands and hugging supporters in crowds. His wife and sons also tested positive. In late March, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson came down with a coronavirus infection that landed him in the hospital for several days. Johnson spent a week at a hospital in London and three nights in intensive care where he was given oxygen and observed around the clock. He was released in mid-April and credited hospital staff with saving his life. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, tested positive for the virus in March. The top Brussels official sent out a tweet in English as well as French saying he was doing well and "in good spirits." He added: "I am following all the necessary instructions, as is my team." Belarus's embattled President Lukashenko told military officials on July 28 that he had survived an "asymptomatic" COVID-19 infection "on his feet," days before his contentious re-election. The claim met skepticism given its timing. He initially dismissed fears about the pandemic as a "psychosis" and went as far as suggesting cures such as drinking vodka, taking saunas and playing ice hockey. Bolivia's interim president Jeanine Anez announced on July 10 that she had the virus. "I feel well, I feel strong, I am going to keep working remotely from my isolation, and I want to thank all the Bolivians who are working to help us in this health crisis," the leader tweeted at the time. The president of Honduras spent time being treated at a military hospital after falling ill with coronavirus in June. He received specialized care including receiving medicines via an intravenous drip. His wife and two presidential aids also tested positive. Hernandez left hospital in early July after his symptoms improved. The Guatemalan president told local radio on September 18 that he had tested positive for the virus. The 64-year-old, who has multiple sclerosis and uses canes to walk, said his symptoms were mild. The government said Giammattei plans on monitoring his health and continuing official duties from isolation. Algerian President Abdelmadjid Tebboune was flown to Germany hospital for treatment after contracting the virus. The 74-year-old looked haggard and spent in his public appearance 47 days after testing positive. Luis Abinader, the newly elected president of the Dominican Republic, tested positive during his election campaign. He recovered before the July election and spent one week in isolation. German Health Minister Jens Spahn, who has led Germany's fight against the pandemic, tested positive for the coronavirus in October and had "cold-like symptoms." He went into immediate isolation and soon recovered. Despite a couple of self-isolation scares for Angela Merkel and other ministers, Spahn remains Germany's highest-profile political case to date. This gallery does not include all major politicians who have contracted the coronavirus. Others, such as Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, Moldovan Prime Minister Ion Chicu, Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, and Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, are just some of the other top politicians who have contracted the virus. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier, Alistair Walsh Mexico's president, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, gave state governors permission to acquire coronavirus vaccines on their own. The federal government has received about 750,000 doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine so far, with almost 600,000 administered. These aren't nearly enough for the country's 750,000 frontline medical workers, each of whom will need two doses. State governors and the private sector have been pressing the government to allow them to acquire vaccines on their own and Lopez Obrador said that they will be allowed to do so, as long as they inform federal officials and use only approved vaccines. Cuba's Sovereign 02 vaccine, one of its four candidates, entered a new trial phase this week. "If all goes well, we will have the entire population vaccinated this year," Vicente Verez, director of the state-run Finlay Vaccine Institute (IFV), told news agency AFP. IFV had the capacity to produce 100 million doses of Sovereign 02 provided it cleared the trial phase, he said. Sovereign 02 is the most advanced of four candidate vaccines being developed by Cuba — a communist-run nation that is one of the least-affected nations in the region by the coronavirus epidemic. Sri Lankan Health Minister Pavithra Wanniarachchi has tested positive for the coronavirus and will self-isolate, officials announced Saturday. The minister had publicly endorsed sorcery and magic potions to stop the disease from spreading on the island nation. Wanniarachchi had publicly consumed a "magic potion" — later revealed to contain honey and nutmeg — after a sorcerer claimed the recipe would provide life-long immunity against COVID. Sri Lanka approved the use of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University only hours after the minister tested positive. One year after the world's first COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan brought life to a standstill, streets and cafes in the central Chinese city are full and people are at work. Elsewhere in China, authorities continue to battle the virus. The country has lauded its pandemic response, particularly in Wuhan, as a "heroic" victory. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 16,417 to 2,122,679, according to a tally from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases. The death toll rose by 879 to 51,521, the data showed on Saturday. The Netherlands has imposed a nighttime curfew that will go into force from Saturday — marking the country's first curfew since the Second World War. Anyone found violating the curfew, which will be in force between 9 p.m. and 4:30 a.m, will face a fine of €95 ($116). The measure, intended to help stem the spread of the more contagious variant of the coronavirus, will remain in force until February 9. Schools, restaurants and all nonessential businesses remain closed. Denmark has banned all flights from the United Arab Emirates for five days saying it needed to make sure the testing regime in Dubai was rigorous amid suspicions of irregularities with the coronavirus tests administered in the city before departure. The Scandinavian country earlier this month made it mandatory for all passengers to present a negative test no more than 24 hours old before boarding a Denmark-bound flight. British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca informed European Union officials Friday that supplies of its coronavirus vaccine to the bloc will be "lower than originally anticipated" due to reduced production at a manufacturing site. It would cut deliveries of its vaccine to the EU down to 31 million doses — a 60% slash — in the first quarter of the year. The company blamed "reduced yields at a manufacturing site within our European supply chain," without giving details The EU drug regulator is due to decide on the approval of AstraZeneca's vaccine on January 29. The company has already been granted emergency authorization in the UK. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oJee  mvb, adi/nm (AP, AFP, Reuters)  