North Rhine-Westphalia State Premier Armin Laschet promised the Christian Democrats (CDU) that he would continue the course set by Chancellor Angela Merkel. By electing him, delegates have shown that they would prefer a party leader who exemplifies trust and reliability and has chosen not to take risks in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic. Whether Laschet will also be put forward as the party's chancellor candidate is a decision that will not be made for months. Nevertheless, he has made his interest in Merkel's other job clear, as well. DW's Katharina Kroll Laschet has two likely rivals for that role — and they're both performing well in opinion polls: Health Minister Jens Spahn, who backed Laschet's campaign to head the party, and Bavarian State Premier Markus Söder, the leader of the CDU-aligned Christian Social Union. Spahn has made himself a constant media presence over the course of the pandemic, and in December even surpassed Merkel in popularity. Regardless of his own personal desires, Christian Democrats trust Laschet to do what he thinks is best for the CDU when the time comes to pick the party's chancellor candidate for elections scheduled for the autumn. The same cannot necessarily be said of the businessman Friedrich Merz, the loser of Saturday's runoff to lead the party, after a third candidate, the Bundestag deputy Norbert Röttgen, was defeated in an earlier round of voting. Faced with an important decision about what direction to take, the delegates clearly opted against veering to the right with Merz. He had offered the party a more socially conservative and economically liberal profile. Laschet's main task now will be to keep the CDU together.  He pledged not to break with Merkel's recipe for success, which means that the party could continue to draw on a relatively broad base of supporters. Laschet's will only be the party's chancellor candidate if he can unite the CDU behind him. Unlike the polarizing Merz, who nevertheless has his fervent fans, Laschet offers for negotiation and balance. That is why a majority of the delegates chose him to lead the party. Merkel, too, prefers negotiation and balance, solutions and compromises. She embodies patient debate and cooperation, and her approach has gained her enormous respect abroad, particularly within the European Union. Germany's international partners will not likely face confrontation with Laschet as leader. He is a proponent of the European Union and trans-Atlanticism; his approach to foreign policy does not differ much from Merkel's. He has also been a staunch supporter of her asylum policies. In his campaign to lead the CDU, Laschet put party first. He has a warm and jolly character, and his approach is one of togetherness and openness. In North Rhine-Westphalia, he built a  Cabinet of specialists, and this has helped his popularity. The CDU performs better in polls than any other party. This is largely thanks to Merkel's popularity, however, and most respondents have indicated that they do not want Laschet to be Germany's next chancellor. Politics is less predictable than ever these days. Voters will cast their ballots according to whether they believe that politicians have responded adequately to the coronavirus pandemic. Now, the next leg of the race to replace Angela Merkel has begun. Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl and other political insiders once called her his "girl." She stepped out of his shadow in 2001, when she led the Christian Democrats (CDU) in the opposition. But it was 2005 when her real moment came. 2005 general elections: The CDU, along with its Bavarian sister party, the CSU, ekes out a win over the Social Democrats (SPD), led by then-Chancellor Gerhard Schröder. It was actually the CDU's worst election performance in its history and an inauspicious start for Merkel, but she hit the ground running. The CDU and SPD formed a "grand coalition" to jointly govern the country. Schröder congratulated Merkel, who became the first woman, first former East German and first scientist to become chancellor — as well as the youngest person ever to hold the position. Merkel quickly showed prowess. At the G8 summit in 2007, she welcomed the leaders of the eight largest economies to Heiligendamm, on the Baltic Sea. She joked around with then-US President George W. Bush (l) and Russia's Vladimir Putin. European politics in fall 2008: Merkel had to share a stage with the big male egos of French President Nicolas Sarkozy (front) and Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. The growing financial crisis quickly became the European Union's most pressing concern. Public debt for some European Union member states kept growing, threatening the very existence of the euro as a currency. Merkel's offer to help came with austerity demands. That did not go down well, especially in Greece, where newspapers ran images comparing the moment to Nazi Germany's occupation in World War II. Merkel is not the best orator. Her speeches are often halting and she rarely goes into depth on policy. Yet her quiet pragmatism and down-to-earth modesty have won wide appeal. That has helped her run four governments. At some point in her long tenure, Merkel went from chancellor of the country to mother of the nation. She is often referred to by supporters and foes alike as "Mutti," a rather old-fashioned word for "mama." In some contexts it is meant a little sarcastically, but it is often also said with affection, as in this Merkel supporter's poster, a play on words that translates as "fully Mutti-vated." Few of her statements have had such a lasting impact as the above. Merkel won widespread praise for staying committed to EU open-border policy and allowing more than 1 million migrants and refugees, many escaping the Syrian war, to enter Germany and the bloc. A vocal minority, however, pushed back against open migration. The nativist sentiment weighs on German and European EU politics to this day. Time Magazine named Angela Merkel its Person of the Year, and even "chancellor of the free world." Merkel has shown her mettle in the face of multiple crises, whether financial, social or political. Though Germany's first female chancellor, Merkel has rarely made gender an issue or spoken on the topic. Still, some women have followed her footsteps into top federal positions, including Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer (outgoing CDU party chief and defense minister), Ursula von der Leyen (European commission president) and Julia Klöckner (agriculture minister). Merkel is discreet. She remains silent on her personal thoughts about less agreeable leaders and deals with them as a matter of state interest. She knows what a liter of milk costs, and years leading the country seem not to have gone to her head. Here in 2014, she visited a Berlin supermarket with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang. It is not unusual to spot her grocery shopping on her own in downtown Berlin. Merkel is known for holding her hands together in a diamond form. She has said it helps her stand up straight. And it has helped the CDU: The party used the diamond symbol on campaign posters for the 2013 election. It became synonymous with trust and calm. Merkel is a very private person. The public knows little more than the fact that her husband, Joachim Sauer, is also a physicist. The two have spent many Easters on the Italian island of Ischia. Due to the global travel slowdown caused by the pandemic, 2020 was the obvious exception. The coronavirus pandemic has changed much more in Germany than Merkel's travel habits. The country — and other nations — turned to her for answers in the crisis. Her serious, fact-based style of confronting the crisis has boosted her popularity to record highs. Two years ago Merkel made explicitly clear that she would not seek reelection in 2021. She remains chancellor until then. When she goes, she'll have served for 16 years — matching the record of her mentor Helmut Kohl, Germany's longest-serving chancellor. Author: Christoph Hasselbach   This article has been adapted from German.