A former civil servant accused of insulting Thailand's monarchy was sentenced to a record prison term of 43 years and six months, for violating the country's strict lese majeste laws. The Bangkok Criminal Court found the woman guilty of 29 counts of violating Thailand's strict law on insulting or defaming the monarchy, for posting audio clips to Facebook and YouTube with comments deemed critical of the monarchy, the group Thai Lawyers for Human Rights said. The court originally announced her sentence as 87 years, but reduced it by half because she pleaded guilty to the offenses. The sentence comes as Thailand increases its use of the controversial legislation against pro-democracy protesters, and a growing wave of open criticism of the monarchy. Rubber ducks have emerged as the new symbol of the pro-democracy movement. The large inflatable toys were initially used to mock authorities who sealed off the parliament building, which is situated on a river bank in the capital, Bangkok. When water cannons pummeled the peaceful crowds, protesters used the ducks as improvised shields. The three-finger salute from the dystopian film series "The Hunger Games" has become a common sight at protests. The gesture of resistance first emerged in 2014 as a form of silent defiance against the military regime led by Prayuth Chan-ocha, who seized power in a coup. Pop culture references have helped demonstrators attract attention from both domestic and international communities. During a rally, a group of activists, known as the "Bad Students," dubbed the government "dinosaurs" for their outdated mindset. The activists said they see themselves as "meteorites" that push government officials into extinction if they refuse to change. The "Bad Students" are also demanding an overhaul of Thailand's lackluster education system. Until recently, the monarchy was considered a taboo topic. Thailand's lese majeste laws makes "disrespect" against the monarchy a crime. Protesters staged a Harry Potter-themed rally in August to break the taboo. In J.K. Rowling's magical world, the powerful Lord Voldemort is referred to as "You Know Who" or "He Who Must Not Be Named." The protest was a clear jab at King Maha Vajiralongkorn. Monarchical reform is by far the most contentious of the movement's demands. In November, demonstrators marched to the royal palace to deliver handwritten letters to the king. When asked what he thought about the protesters, King Maha Vajiralongkorn simply said: "We love them all the same" and described Thailand as a land of compromise. Many demonstrators are frustrated at the disproportionate use of force and are marching peacefully to demand justice and an end to violence. So far, six people have suffered gunshot wounds and more than 50 people have been seriously injured. After a violent clash between anti-government protesters, protesters marched to the police headquarters the following day to tag the building with paint. The pro-democracy movement has drawn protesters from a wide-range of interest groups. The movement has also come to embody Thailand's diversity, with thousands of people joining in protests to push for gender equality and LGBT+ rights. Protesters change rally venues at short notice as a popular tactic to confuse police. Authorities on Wednesday stacked shipping containers and set up razor wires in central Bangkok to cordon off the Crown Property Bureau from protesters. But protesters announced a last-minute shift to the Siam Commercial Bank’s headquarters. The king is the largest shareholder of the bank. Author: Emmy Sasipornkarn Anchan — whose last name was withheld by lawyers in order to protect her relatives — was first arrested in 2015 after being linked to a podcast host who was a vocal critic of the monarchy. She was then held in pre-trial detention for three years before being released on bail. When her case was transferred to criminal court, she pleaded guilty with the hope that the court would have sympathy for her actions, because she had only shared the podcaster's audio clips, and had not posted or commented on it, she told local media on Tuesday. "I thought it was nothing. There were so many people who shared this content and listened to it. The guy [who made the content] had done it for so many years," Anchan said. "So I didn't really think this through and was too confident and not being careful enough to realize at the time that it wasn't appropriate.'' Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3o5Ne Anchan's sentence also spurred widespread criticism on the part of rights organizations. "Today's court verdict is shocking and sends a spine-chilling signal that not only criticisms of the monarchy won't be tolerated, but they will also be severely punished," said Sunai Phasuk, a senior researcher for Human Rights Watch. "Anchan, a 60-year-old woman, was sentenced today to 87 years in jail for sharing 29 audio clips of 'Banpot', a radio host critical of the #Monarchy… It's #inhuman. It's #Dictatorship," tweeted Emilie Pradichit, executive director of the Manushya Foundation, a Bangkok-based NGO. The previous record for a lese majeste sentence was issued in 2017, when a military court sentenced a man to 35 years in prison for making social media posts deemed defamatory to the monarchy. Abolishing the lese majeste law is one of the key demands of the current pro-democracy movement in the Southeast Asian country. Since demonstrations against the Prayuth Chan-o-cha-led government started in July, over 40 activists have been charged under lese majeste laws for their participation in demonstrations, demanding reforms to both the government and monarchy – led by King Maha Vajiralongkorn. Violating the lese majeste law — Article 112 of the constitution — is punishable by three to 15 years in prison per count. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lp9E lc/aw (AP, AFP)