14' So far this is the Manuel Neuer show. He comes flying out to hear clear in an act most keepers wouldn't back themselves to make. Bayern are searching, Gladbach are staying disciplined. 11' Costa gets stuck under his own feet, which sparks a Gladbach break. Bensebaini does a great job to hold it up before Hofmann arrives but his shot is blocked. Neuer then does a Cryuff Turn to open up space because he's Manuel Neuer. 10' The moment Bayern step over the halfway line, Gladbach press hard. They do choose to press higher now and again but on the whole it's the push when Bayern venture forward that Marco Rose's side are doing well. 6' High tempo start. Gladbach flirt with a chance inside Bayern's box and then Bayern glide forward with Alphonso Davies but Gladbach do enough. Gladbach win the ball high up but then give it away from a throw-in. Early sparring well underway here. 1' Gladbach, in all white, get us underway. In the pandemic world, Bayern are in the tunnel alone first and they come out onto the field alone too. Neuer chatting to Costa before his start tonight. Big game. Gladbach later follow suit. Nearly go time here. "The team is really up for this game tonight," Hansi Flick said tonight. Flick also spoke of trust in Pavard, which is why he retained his place. "He has to show his experience tonight." Also, hearing that Plea is not included for Gladbach tonight because of muscular issues picked up in training. His absence is nothing more than precautionary it seems. "We're not under any pressure to sell anyone," Salihamidzic said before the game tonight. It didn't sound like a definitive no though, or maybe that's just me. As for signing anyone, notably in central defense, the sporting director remained coy and responded with the ususal phrases. Bayern vs. Dortmund makes the headlines and Schalke vs. Dortmund is the great rivalry of the Bundesliga but this fixture is one of the low-key greats of Germany's top division. Honestly, some of the most famous players and coaches the league has had over the years have worn both colors. A special game and a great way to start a Friday night. Plea not involved for Gladbach and with Marcus Thuram suspended this is probably the best Gladbach have to offer. Neuhaus will need to be great and Zakaria could do with rediscovering his form. Bayern keep the out of form Pavard in and it's Douglas Costa who gets the start ahead of key winger Kingsley Coman, who is on the bench. Also, no Boateng in the starting lineup, Flick opts for Alaba and Süle. Gladbach XI: Sommer – Lainer, Elvedi, Ginter, Bensebaini – Kramer, Zakaria, Neuhaus – Hofmann, Stindl – Embolo Bayern XI: Neuer – Pavard, Süle, Alaba, Davies – Goretzka, Kimmich – Sané, Müller, Costa – Lewandowski Good evening! What a way to start the matchday. Borussia Mönchengladbach against Bayern Munich. The league leader's facing their bogey team of late in a game that could open the door for RB Leipzig and Leverkusen in the title race. The teams have arrived at the stadium. Team news is expected shortly. Read more: Rose focused on Bayern despite BVB rumors Gladbach have won their Hinrunde fixture against Bayern in each of the last three years. Last season, after beating Bayern 2-1 at home on matchday 14, the Foals sat top of the table – in 2020/21 Gladbach find themselves 12 points adrift of the record titleholders. The German international has started Gladbach’s last two competitive matches following a long injury layoff. He got an assist in both victories over Elversberg and Bielefeld. With Hofmann in the squad, Gladbach have a record of W7, D4 and L2 in all competitions. While he was out injured, they managed only two wins (D4, L3). Gladbach have picked up more points from their seven away games (11) than in their seven at home (10) this season. The only time the Foals have only recorded two wins and dropped points in five games at home (D4, L1), which is already as often as in the whole of 2019/20 (W12, D2, L3). Read more: Lewandowski & Sane inspire Bayern comeback Lewandowski has bagged a brace on each of the last three matchdays and could now equal the Bundesliga record of four consecutive two-goal hauls held by Lothar Emmerich (for Dortmund in 1967) and Tomislav Maric (for Wolfsburg in 2001). However, Lewandowski only has four goals in 16 Bundesliga appearances against Gladbach. Bayern have scored 44 goals from their 14 games in the Bundesliga this season, which would equate to 107 by the end of the campaign. Only once in the league’s history has a team had more at this stage, which was Bayern themselves in 1976/77 with a team featuring Gerd Müller, KarlHeinz Rummenigge and Uli Hoeneß. "We’ve done very well against top opponents in the Champions League this season. You have to find the right attitude in games like that, be brash. We can beat Bayern, but we'll need 90 minutes of conviction to do it." "We've addressed it [our slow starts] and want to go into the game with a different mindset and attitude. We want to win more challenges and do more when we don't have possession, which is important. We can't just rely on Manu. We must show what we’re capable of." Bayern have fallen behind in eight straight Bundesliga matches for the first time in their history. However, they haven’t lost a single one of them (W5, D3). No Bundesliga team had ever before trailed on eight consecutive matchdays without losing. The previous record was five games, achieved six times. Sommer – Lainer, Elvedi, Ginter, Wendt – Kramer, Neuhaus – Hofmann, Stindl, Plea – Embolo Neuer – Süle, Boateng, Alaba, Davies – Goretzka, Kimmich – Sane, Müller, Coman – Lewandowski Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3nY9R