Fierce Kremlin critic and political campaigner Alexei Navalny headed back to Russia on Sunday, despite being warned by Russian authorities that he will be arrested upon his arrival. Navalny boarded a flight operated by Russian airline Pobeda in Berlin and is scheduled to land in Moscow's Vnukovo airport at 7:20 p.m. local time (1620 GMT/UTC). Addressing reporters onboard, Navalny said he "very happy" and was "sure everything will be great." He dismissed the fears he would be arrested upon arrival. "Arrest me upon landing!? That cannot be done," he said. "What do I need to be afraid of? What bad thing can happen to me in Russia?" he told reporters, saying he was innocent of any wrongdoing and felt he was "a citizen of Russia who has every right" to go back to his native country. Security had been tightened around the airport awaiting Navalny's arrival. The 44-year-old called on his supporters to meet him there, but authorities warned against unauthorized rallies on the premises. While Navalny was in the air, however, his close ally Ivan Zhdanov reported that of several Navalny's associates were detained in Moscow while waiting for the politician's plane to land. The Russian authorities detained dissident and anti-corruption lawyer Lyobov Sobol as well Navalny's assistant Ilya Pahomov, along several others, according to Zhdanov, who leads Navalny's Anti-Corruption Foundation. The news on Sobol's detainment was also confirmed by Russia's Dozhd TV. Earlier on Sunday, Sobol posted a video on her channel where she said she "went [through airport security] as usual." The 33-year-old activist said she brought a special backpack with her because she had expected to be detained while making her way to the Vnukovo terminal. Sobol added that "this is how it usually goes." "I'm very happy that made it through the airport, that I'm sitting here and I'm very much hoping I would be able to meet Navalny and that there would be no provocations from the government," she told Russian Novaya Gazeta. Other activists and allies of Navalny said they had been stopped by police early on Sunday. Journalists complained that they had been banned from entering the airport on the grounds of coronavirus regulations. However, other reporters and activists were accompanying Navalny on his flight. "I'm flying home," he posted from the tarmac. The tweet links to a short video posted on his Instagram channel, which shows Navalny sitting in the plane next to his wife Yulia. He and his wife are seen taking off their face masks, with Yulia then saying "Kid, get us some water, we are flying home" in reference to a final scene of the popular Russian movie "Brat 2." The 2000 film ends with a male and a female character taking a flight from the US to Moscow. One of Russian President Vladimir Putin's main rivals, Navalny was flown to Berlin in August last year after surviving an assassination attempt from the Novichok nerve agent. The Russian federal prison service FSIN said on Thursday that it would take all actions necessary to detain him and had requested that his suspended sentence be upgraded to jail time. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3n7mK Navalny was convicted in 2014 of fraud charges which the European Court of Human Rights has ruled unlawful. "In theory, they can detain him as soon as he arrives [in Russia] but initially only for 48 hours," said Vadim Kobzev, one of Navalny's lawyers. Moscow has denied all allegations of poisoning the anti-corruption activist although scientists in Germany, Sweden and France, as well as tests from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons all confirmed traces of the Soviet-era nerve-agent found on Navalny. The activist also recorded a phone call with the agent who allegedly poisoned him admitting to his actions. Moscow has rejected the recordings as fake. Navalny's poisoning and later treatment in Germany have been a source of contention between Russia and the EU. Late last year, the European Union imposed travel bans and bank account freezes on several Russian officials over the incident, including the head of Russia's FSB intelligence service.  