LeBron James called a prosecutor's decision not to file charges against a white police officer who shot a Black man in Wisconsin this summer a "blow to the heart and to the gut." Jacob Blake was left paralyzed after being shot in the back on Aug. 23 by Kenosha police officer Rusten Sheskey.     "I'm smart enough to know that even though we are playing a game of basketball that there's so much more going on in the world,'' James said Tuesday after his Los Angeles Lakers beat the Memphis Grizzlies. "So much more that's even more important than us playing a game." "To hear what happened in Kenosha today was a blow to the heart and to the gut, not only to that community, but to us and to every Black person that has been a part of this process, seeing these outcomes for so long.'' Northampton Saints' Premiership Rugby meeting with Leicester Tigers on Saturday has been called off after the Saints returned positive COVID-19 tests, the league said on Wednesday. "The health and safety of players, management, staff and match officials is our priority," said a Premiership Rugby spokesman. "We wish those who have tested positive at Saints a speedy and safe recovery." AS Roma director Morgan De Sanctis is in intensive care following a car accident in the Italian capital on Tuesday night. The 43-year-old former Italy goalkeeper was rushed to hospital after a serious incident on Rome's busy Via Cristoforo Colombo, Italian media reports said. De Sanctis underwent an operation on an abdominal haemorrhage, where his spleen was removed. He is understood to now be conscious and in a stable condition following surgery. The Premier League insist that the show must go on, despite 40 positive coronavirus tests of players and staff in the last two rounds of testing, conducted over the last week. That figure is more than double the previous record of 18 positive cases recorded last week and comes as England enters another nationwide lockdown to halt rapidly rising infection rates. Supporters of women’s rights activist Loujain al-Hathloul, who campaigned for the right for women to drive in Saudi Arabia, have demanded a boycott of the Dakar Rally while she remains in prison. The motorsport event is currently underway in Saudi Arabia, though the country has been criticised by many for "sportswashing" its reputation while maintaining a restrictive brand of conservatism. "Women’s rights activists have endured years in prison, psychological and physical torture, and sexual abuse for campaigning for the right to drive. Many remain in prison to this day,” said Lucy Rae, spokeswoman for Grant Liberty, a human rights advocacy body. "It is utterly grotesque that at the same time Saudi authorities will host a motor sport event – including women drivers – while the heroes that won their right to drive languish in jail." Saudi Arabia, who claim Hathloul is jailed for undermining the royal family rather than her campaign to allow women to drive, became the host of the event last year as part of a project designed to open itself to the world through sport. Australian Grand Prix organisers and officials are discussing the schedule for the race with Formula One bosses, a government spokesman said on Tuesday, amid speculation the season-opener will be postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The country's strict travel restrictions are among the logistical problems for the seaosn opener, slated for March 21. Record-breaking sumo champion Hakuho has tested positive for COVID-19 just days before the New Year tournament, the Japan Sumo Association said. The JSA said Hakuho was tested after noticing a loss of smell, and that other members of the Miyagino stable who are thought to have come into contact with him would be tested immediately. A JSA spokesperson said his participation in the tournament, was as yet undecided, but the competition was set to go ahead as scheduled. Former Mainz player Bo Svensson has taken over the role of head coach at his old club, who have now completed a backroom facelift that has also seen Christian Heidel and Martin Schmidt return in new roles. The Dane joins from Austrian side FC Liefering, with Mainz in the Bundesliga’s bottom two. "Bo brings all the qualities we’d wish for in our head coach role," said Christian Heidel, Head of Strategy, Sport and Communication. "He learned the role in our youth academy and was familiar with the work of Jürgen Klopp and Thomas Tuchelas an active professional. He knows how our football should feel." The Australian Open is facing another disruption, with the owners of 36 penthouse apartments in the hotel set to house hundreds of tennis players threatening to launch a legal challenge. Residents at the Westin Melbourne claim they were not properly consulted on international players quarantining at the Westin, accusing the hotel's management of "ambushing" them with the plan. As a result, they're reportedly considering a last-minute injunction to the Supreme Court over the health risk it poses. International players will be required to spend 14 days in quarantine and will undergo COVID-19 tests at least five times during their stay, but have been granted leave for one daily block of five hours to practice. The tournament, which begins on February 8, is the first of four Grand Slams in the tennis season. Gerry And The Pacemakers star Gerry Marsden has passed away aged 78. Born in the Toxteth area of Liverpool, Marsden is best known for covering the Rogers and Hammerstein song You'll Never Walk Alone - a song adopted by Liverpool FC as their official motto and anthem. Marsden was made an MBE in 2003 for services to charity after supporting victims of the Hillsborough disaster. Sir Kenny Dalglish, who managed Liverpool at the time, tweeted that he was "saddened" by the news, highlighting that You'll Never Walk Alone is an "integral part of Liverpool Football Club, and never more so than now." This year's Masters event will no longer be held at Alexandra Palace, as originally planned as the London venue is not suitable under the UK's coronavirus rules. As a result, The Masters which begin on Sunday January 10 and run until January 17, have moved. "WST had planned to host the event at Alexandra Palace in London, its home since 2011. But given the current Covid-19 restrictions, the decision has been taken to stage the Masters in a 'bubble' environment, behind closed doors, at Arena MK in Milton Keynes, " said a statement released by the World Snooker Tour.