Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny appeared in court in Moscow on Friday on charges of insulting a World War II veteran. The defamation case against Navalny opened last week, after he was already sentenced to three-and-a-half-years in a separate case. The prominent Kremlin critic could face fines, compulsory labor or prison if convicted in the latest case against him. He is alleged to have slandered participants in a video promoting reforms to allow Russian President Vladimir Putin to stay in office for longer. Navalny tweeted a clip of the video, describing the people who appeared in it as "traitors." The people who appeared in the video spoke in favor of changing Russia's constitution — a change critics say tightened Putin's stranglehold on power. They included a 95-year-old World War II veteran who said Navalny's comments led his health to deteriorate. The lawyer-turned-political campaigner has been among the most prominent figures of Russia's opposition to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny came to prominence in 2008, when his blog exposing malpractice in Russian politics and among the country's major state-owned companies came to public attention. Revelations published on his blog even led to resignations, a rarity in Russian politics. In 2011 Navalny was arrested for the first time. He ended up spending 15 days in prison for his role at a rally outside the State Duma in Moscow. A recent parliamentary election victory for Putin's United Russia had been marred by instances of ballot stuffing, reported by demonstrators on social media. Upon his release, Navalny pledged to continue the protest movement. After being reelected president in 2012, Putin ordered Russia's Investigative Committee to launch a criminal inquiry into Navalny's past. The following year the campaigner was charged and sentenced again, this time for five years, for alleged embezzlement in the city of Kirov. However, he was released the following day pending affirmation from a higher court. The sentence was later suspended. Despite being embroiled in legal troubles, Navalny was allowed to run in the 2013 Moscow mayoral election. A second-place finish behind Putin ally Sergei Sobyanin was seen as an overwhelming success and galvanized the Russian opposition movement. His anti-Kremlin rhetoric led Navalny to be banned from appearing on Russian state-owned television. That forced him to deliver his political message over social media and his blog. His talent for public speaking, punchy use of language and humorous mockery of Putin and his loyalists mobilized a legion of young followers. In December 2016, the opposition leader announced the formal start of his campaign to run for the Russian presidency in March 2018. However, repeated accusations of corruption, which his supporters say are politically motivated, ultimately barred him from running for public office. In 2016 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia had violated Navalny's right to a fair trial in the Kirov case. Although Russia's Supreme Court overturned the five-year sentence, the verdict was sent back to the Kirov court. In 2017, this court again handed Navalny a suspended five-year sentence. In February 2017, anti-corruption rallies across dozens of Russian cities led to the arrests of over 1,000 demonstrators, including Navalny. The protests, believed to have been the largest in the Russian capital since 2012, were spurred by a report published by Navalny linking Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to a property empire valued at billions of euros. Navalny was released 15 days later. Navalny was assaulted and hospitalized in April 2017 after being hit in the eye with a chemical green dye. The attack permanently damaged his right cornea. Navalny accused Russian authorities of stopping him from seeking medical treatment abroad due to the embezzlement conviction against him. He was eventually permitted by the Kremlin human rights council to travel to Spain for eye surgery. In 2018, Navalny was jailed for 30 days. After his release in September, he faced another 20-day stint. In April 2019, the European Court of Human Rights ruled Russia had violated Navalny's rights by holding him under house arrest for most of 2014 during the Kirov embezzlement case. In July 2019, only weeks after being released from a 10-day jail sentence, Navalny was again jailed for 30 days for violating Russia's strict protest laws. The opposition leader accused Russia of poisoning him with an allergic agent while in jail. Using YouTube and social media, Navalny had amassed a following of millions by late December 2019. Then police raided his Anti-Corruption Foundation headquarters (above), detaining him in the process. His staff said officials wanted to confiscate their tech equipment. Just a few months later, in March, Navalny reported that his bank accounts and those of his family members had been frozen. On August 20, Navalny's spokesperson announced the activist became violently ill during a flight from Siberia to Moscow. The plane made an emergency landing, and Navalny was rushed to a hospital in Russia's Omsk and later evacuated to Berlin's Charite clinic (above). Doctors said he was in a coma. Navalny's associates claimed he had been poisoned and pointed to previous attacks on the activist. Navalny was taken out of the coma less than three weeks later and was said to be responsive. Not long afterwards, he was posting on Instagram, saying he was slowly regaining strength following weeks of only being "technically alive." The German government said labs in France and Sweden both confirmed that Navalny had been poisoned with the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok. Months later, Navalny released the recording of a phone call he made to a man he said was a member of Russia's Federal Security Service, whose headquarters is pictured above. The alleged agent said he was not directly involved in poisoning Navalny, but deeply involved with efforts to clean up any traces of Novichok. Moscow dismissed the recording as fake. Navalny had promised to return to Russia and he did so, despite warnings that he would be arrested. He was taken into police custody shortly after arriving in Moscow. The dissident, seen here at a passport control point, had said he was "not afraid of anything." He was sentenced to 30 days in prison at a swiftly convened trial the following day. Navalny was ordered to spend two years and eight months in a penal colony for violating terms of his probation while recovering in Germany from his poisoning. He dismissed the proceedings an attempt by the Kremlin to scare Russians into submission. Navalny supporters took to the streets soon after the prison sentence was announced. Navalny's aides called for a rally in Moscow's Manezhnaya Square, which was blocked off by riot police. Author: David Martin The trial opened last week but was interrupted by the plaintiff's health issues. Navalny suggested the veteran, who participated in the hearing remotely, was mentally unable to follow the proceedings. Wearing a blue hoodie, Navalny appeared in a glass cage for defendants at the Moscow court. Riot police surrounded the court and set up cordons. Navalny's lawyer Olga Mikhailova urged the judge to allow the media into the courtroom and accused her of bias. Mikhailova asked that the judge be removed from overseeing the hearing, a request backed by Navalny. "Stop shaming yourself and enroll in some courses to improve your knowledge of the laws of the Russian Federation," he said. Ahead of the appearance, police conducted a late-night search of Navalny's headquarters, ending at about 1 a.m. local time. The scope and nature of evidence seized was not immediately clear. However, photos posted by Navalny's staff showed them bagging a coffee mug. Police gave no statement about the reason for the search. In one report, a Navalny staff member said police claimed they had been told pornography was being published at the office. Navalny's lawyer has called the defamation trial another attempt to silence his vocal criticism of Putin and his increasingly authoritarian regime. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oAA0 Navalny was arrested on January 17 at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport where he had arrived on a flight from Germany. He had spent five months away from Russia while recovering from poisoning with the nerve-agent Novichok that he blames on the Kremlin. It was alleged that the time he spent in Germany violated a suspended sentence he was given for a money-laundering and fraud conviction. When Navalny left Russia for Germany, he had been rendered unconscious by the poisoning. The 44-year-old was ordered to serve three-and-a-half years in prison for the supposed violation. Navalny's arrest and detention sparked protests throughout the country on two weekends in January, in which about 10,000 people were reported to have been arrested.   Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3p6Hf rc/rs (dpa, AFP)