Saudi Arabia has rejected a US intelligence report that accused Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman of ordering the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a Foreign Ministry statement said on Friday. The US report, released on Friday, cited the crown prince's power over the intelligence and security forces, adding that they would not carry out such operation without a green light from him. The Saudi Foreign Ministry said the report included false information, adding that the government took "all necessary judicial measures" to prosecute the murderers. "The concerned individuals were convicted and sentenced by the courts in the Kingdom, and these sentences were welcomed by the family of Jamal Khashoggi, may he Rest In Peace," the statement read. A critic of the prince's apparent authoritarian rule, Washington Post journalist Khashoggi was killed in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October 2018. Saudi Arabia sentenced five people to 20 years each in prison for the murder. The release of the US intelligence document could affect the alliance between Washington and Riyadh. The US said it will impose sanctions on 76 Saudi individuals for their alleged involvement in the murder, although media reports suggest restrictions will not affect the crown prince. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia made sure to stress that its ties with the US were "robust and enduring." "This partnership has thrived for nearly eight decades on the basis of mutual respect, and the institutions in both countries have worked diligently to deepen these ties in all aspects," the Saudi Foreign Ministry said on Twitter. Hatice Cengiz, Khashoggi's fiancee tweeted on Friday “#justiceforjamal” with a photo of the slain journalist, after the release of the US report on his death. Twitter users shared the hashtag "Justice for Jamal" as individuals and organizations called for further political action against Saudi Arabia. The Committee to Protect Journalist, an advocacy group for press freedom, called on the US and the international community to sanction Mohammad bin Salman. Agnes Callamard, a UN Special Rapporteur on extra-judicial executions, also called on Washington to impose sanctions on the crown prince. “Banishing those responsible for ordering the execution of Jamal Khashoggi from the international stage is an important step towards justice and key to sending the strongest message possible to would-be perpetrators the world over,” Callamard said in a statement. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3jCGg  