People across Myanmar joined a third day of demonstrations Monday, to protest the coup that removed elected de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Tens of thousands of people gathered in the streets of Myanmar over the weekend, in the biggest protests since the military putsch that removed Suu Kyi a week ago. The country found itself returned to military rule after a 10-year flirtation with democracy. During a demonstration in the capital, Naypyidaw, authorities used water cannon against anti-coup protesters. Protesters in the country's largest city, Yangon, held up Wanted posters featuring the image of Myanmar's Commander-in-Chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. The AFP news agency reported that there were suspicions that the water had been laced with chemicals. According to the Reuters news agency, police appeared to stop using the water cannon after protesters made and appeal to them. However, it said, the demonstration continued. For the first time on Monday, state media referenced the protests, claiming they were endangering stability in Myanmar. Later on Monday, state broadcaster MRTV issued a warning on a potential crackdown on protesters, saying that opposition to the military takeover was unlawful. "Action must be taken according to the law with effective steps against offences which disturb, prevent and destroy the state's stability, public safety and the rule of law," said a statement read by an announcer on the channel. Protesters hold up "Wanted" posters with an image of the Myanmar military's commander-in-chief Yangon-based activist and filmmaker Lo Nay said that protests in other parts of the country have largely been taking place "peacefully." While many people have worn red to the demonstrations to show support for Suu Kyi and her National league for Democracy (NLD), Lo Nay noted that the movement is about more than supporting Suu Kyi. "There are a lot of especially younger people wearing black and blue shirts just to show that it's not just about one party and this is about everyone," Lo Nay told DW. "It concerns everyone in the country and we want to show that this is civilians against [the] authoritarian military regime or government," he added. Calls to join protests have grown louder and more organized since the coup last Monday, with the military shutting down social media channels being used by its opponents. The "Civil Disobedience Movement" has gathered pace online, with the public urged to show their anger at the coup each night by banging pots and cymbals. Police have arrested individuals involved in such protests. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3p2Ti With the military junta periodically shutting down the Internet  protesters have had to turn to phone calls and text messages to organize the demonstrations. "Right now, we are hoping the information flow stays the same because there are a lot of fake news and rumors running around. So we hope to reduce that and then get the correct information across [to] other people," Lo Nay said. The military justified the coup with a claim of fraud in last November's elections, which Suu Kyi's NLD won in a landslide. The junta has proclaimed a state of emergency lasting a year and promised to then hold fresh elections — with no precise offer of a timeframe. While the coup has triggered widespread international condemnation, China — a regional and economic ally — has declined to criticize the generals that presided over it. Myanmar, a former British colony then known as Burma, was under military rule for five decades following a 1962 coup. While Suu Kyi's five years as the nation's effective leader have represented a brief period of relative democracy, the country's authorities have continued to apply repressive colonial-era laws and engage in ethnic conflict. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3p1U0   mvb, rc/rs (AFP, Reuters)