Facebook has barred accounts tied to Myanmar's military as well as military-controlled media accounts from using its platforms, the social media giant said on Thursday. The ban also includes Facebook ads from military-controlled companies and accounts on Instagram. The company cited the military coup earlier this month as well as the violence against protesters that followed as the reason for the ban. "Events since the February 1 coup, including deadly violence, have precipitated a need for this ban," Facebook said in a statement. "We believe the risks of allowing the Tatmadaw [Myanmar military] on Facebook and Instagram are too great." The ban takes effect immediately. It comes days after Facebook blocked pages run by the army-controlled Myawaddy TV and state broadcaster MRTV. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pkxW In 2018, Facebook banned several accounts of the military top brass, including Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, who was at the helm of this month's coup that ousted the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy party. Hlaing heads the junta that now acts as the government. The junta has also made unsuccessful attempts to block Facebook and other social media platforms. It has cut access to the internet nightly from 1 a.m., for over a week now. Facebook is used by about half of Myanmar's population Facebook and other social media platforms came under intense criticism in 2017, when human rights activists said they had failed to rein in hate speech against Myanmar's Muslim Rohingya minority. It was the same year the military launched its controversial "counterinsurgency operation" that drove over 700,000 Rohingya to seek refuge in Bangladesh. Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi on Wednesday held talks with her Thai counterpart Don Pramudwinai and Myanmar's new foreign minister, former army colonel Wunna Maung Lwin, in Thailand. Indonesia and other members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are seeking to resolve the crisis sparked by the military takeover in Myanmar. The regional grouping has pushed for dialogue with the junta as a way to ease tensions rather than other methods, such as applying sanctions — a strategy favored by Western countries. "We asked all parties to exercise restraint and not use violence ... to avoid casualties and bloodshed,'' Marsudi said in a press conference, stressing the need for reconciliation and trust-building. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ph51 Pro-democracy demonstrators, meanwhile, returned to the streets of Yangon and other major cities in Myanmar on Thursday to demand the junta step down and return Suu Kyi's elected government to power. A general strike called by activists on Monday led to huge rallies, despite a warning from authorities that police would use lethal force in the case of confrontation. At least three people have been shot dead during the demonstrations so far. The military government has said it staged the coup because of voting irregularities in the November election that gave Suu Kyi's party a landslide win. The national election commission has rejected the allegation. The junta has also said that it will rule for a year under a state of emergency and then hold fresh elections. Protests have erupted across Myanmar against the February 1 military coup. On February 18, people living near Inle Lake, a popular tourist destination in southern Shan state, demonstrated against the military junta and demanded that democracy be restored in the Southeast Asian country. People from all walks of life participated in the unique boat protests. They were seen carrying megaphones and placards while chanting revolutionary songs. Senior military figures seized power earlier this month, claiming widespread voter fraud in November's elections, where Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) party won by a landslide. They arrested elected officials and quickly stacked political offices and the court system with loyalists. Since the coup, people have protested in the tens of thousands and established a civil disobedience campaign. This was met with military violence, harsh crackdowns and widespread arrests. Western countries have imposed sanctions on the coup leaders and demanded that Suu Kyi and other political prisoners be released. Inle Lake protesters welcome the sanctions and say that their goal is to end the military's dominance for good. They are, however, not in favor of a reconciliation with the generals, a policy pursued by Suu Kyi. Shan state is populated by the Intha people, who are also known as "sons of the lake." "The only way to protect the traditions of the minorities is through a democratic and decentralized system. That is why we need federal democracy in Myanmar," Ko Su, an ethnic Intha activist, told DW. Although Suu Kyi's NLD did not deliver its democratic promises, the townships around Inle Lake remained loyal to the party. Thursday's protests, however, should not be considered a political rally in favor of the NLD, but rather a call for the restoration of democracy. The ethnic Intha people say that they have not been able to fully capitalize on tourism because most hotels and businesses in the area are owned by people with connections to the military. Before the coup, local people say they could at least get some benefits from a booming tourism industry. Author: Robert Bociaga (Nyaung Shwe) dvv, nm/msh (AP, Reuters)  