Everything stings that little bit more when the temperature dips below freezing. Muscles cramp up, bones start to ache and crunching tackles leave their mark. So Bayern will have welcomed their departure from a snowy Berlin, especially after securing a hard-fought 1-0 victory over Hertha Berlin thanks to a Kingsley Coman strike. Sun and 20 degrees Celsius will welcome them in Doha, Qatar, where they'll compete in the Club World Cup. In this hectic season, with a packed schedule, those extra matches will add a further burden. But after a game like this, a brief sojourn in the sun could actually give the squad a welcome boost. Bayern certainly didn't have it their own way against a much-improved Hertha. The relegation candidates look rejuvenated under Pal Dardai and could have nicked a point. Bayern's lead was fortunate — Kingsley Coman's shot fizzed off Niklas Stark to loop over the head of goalkeeper Rune Jarstein. Dardai, who had recorded three draws and a win in his last five games against Bayern, had done his homework. His players constantly found gaps in the Bavarians' backline with piercing through-balls and intelligent movement. "We knew about Bayern's weakness," new signing Sami Khedira said afterwards. "We just lacked that killer composure in front of goal. We had a big chance early and late, but I think if we keep playing this way then the points will come." Dodi Lukebakio should have opened the scoring after just three minutes, and Matheus Cunha should have leveled the score in the final minute. Instead, Manuel Neuer's fine form continued and Bayern's luck continued as Cunha's dink trickled agonisingly wide of the far post. Despite the chance slipping through their fingers, Dardai chose to see the positives in a display which gives the club hope after a disappointing season so far. Robert Lewandowski missed his first penalty since January 2019 "I won't blame him [Cunha]. I'm happy he had the chance, that's key," he said. "If he didn't have the chance I'd say, where were you?" Despite the scares, Bayern will know they should have ended the contest in the first half. Robert Lewandowski's penalty after 10 minutes was saved by Rune Jarstein, while Coman was guilty of skying an effort into orbit when free inside the box just before the break. Having collected yet another three points, Bayern left the Olympic Stadium in a hurry to catch a late-night flight to Qatar. They play Egyptian side Al Ahly on Monday. Should they win, they'll compete in the final three days later, and then return to the Bundesliga the following Monday. Despite the extra work load, a change in scenery, with some sun and tropical temperatures, could be just what Bayern's tank requires to tackle an arduous second half of the season. And a Club World Cup title wouldn't go astray either.