The European Commission filed suit against Germany in the European Court of Justice, the bloc's highest court, for long running violations of existing nature conservation laws. For years, the Commission in Brussels has been criticizing Germany for violating the EU's Flora-Fauna-Habitat Directive, as have domestic environmental organizations. "According to the latest information from the authorities, Germany has still not designated a significant number of areas as special protection areas," the Commission wrote in a statement released on Thursday. "Therefore, the Commission is taking Germany to the Court of Justice of the European Union." A German court has temporarily halted the clearing of thousands of trees to make room for Elon Musk's electric car factory near Berlin. Environmental activists moved the court just days after the cutting of trees began, citing threat to wildlife and water supplies in the area. Tesla wants to start production at the "Gigafactory" in Grünheide in Brandenburg as early as the middle of next year. In Munich, conservationists are currently trying to prevent further expansion of the airport by petitioning the state parliament. In times of climate change, the airport is planning a "gigantic expansion" with "unlimited land consumption," the critics say. The petition, which has already been signed by 12,000 people, is due to be submitted in early 2020. The hermit beetle is small and you rarely get to see it. But it was spotted in six trees near Stuttgart's main train station, that is to say in reality only its droppings were spotted. Those trees would have been cut down for the Stuttgart 21 railway project — but they weren't immediately as the beetle is a protected species. The EU decided the trees could only be felled under one condition as German rail operator Deutsche Bahn explained on October 30. In a nearby park, some trees will have to become the new home of the hermit beetles which will be relocated there, meaning that Stuttgart 21 will become even more expensive and face more delays. Ospreys and cranes got in the way of construction work at the yet unfinished Berlin-Brandenburg Airport (BER). When agreeing on routes, stress levels for these animals had not been considered properly, campaigners argued. Hence the European Commission lodged a formal complaint against Germany. The European hamster has a long record as a force that's slowed down construction projects. In 2004, they were found near Grevenbroich in Germany, exactly where utility RWE intended to build a power station. Construction only started in 2006. The hamster also caused delays in the construction of an industrial park and an exhibition center elsewhere in the country. A bridge across the Elbe river was almost not built in Dresden, Germany, as it would have crossed the flight route of protected horseshoe bats there. A special guiding system using bushes and trees was installed for the bats to fly under the bridge in order not to collide with any vehicles or the bridge itself. An important Elbe dredging project has been stalled for 12 years, with excavators not having been given the go-ahead. Container ships need the water in the river to become deeper again, but the Elbe is also used by northern shovelers, a rare Asian dragonfly and a rare red knot shorebird species — and these must not be harmed! After German reunification, plans emerged to build a highway linking the towns of Eisenach and Kassel. The upshot of it all was that lawyers and judges had to deal with Italian crested newts and yellow-bellied toads. Among other things, a 4-kilometer (2.5-mile) tunnel has been built to protect the habitat of a total of 5,000 newts there. Author: Insa Wrede Describing the situation as "legal dissonance" with Brussels, Germany's Federal Environment Ministry responded by saying that the Commission's demands went "too far," in the opinion of the both the federal and state governments. Their implementation would "mean an immense financial and administrative effort." In 2019 the Commission had raised "new allegations regarding the setting of detailed conservation targets and the publication of management plans," as the ministry put it. It said that, in particular, the "site-specific conservation goals" from Brussels went "too far." The European Commission says that Berlin has been in breach of some aspects of this directive for more than 10 years. The core issue is the designation of protected areas in EU member states. This includes so-called conservation objectives to protect or restore certain species. However the deadline for implementing the Habitats Directive has "in some cases expired more than 10 years ago," the Commission further explained. In 2015, the Commission first initiated a so-called initiated infringement procedure against Germany. Since then, the Commission wrote, Germany had failed to improve the situation adequately. "The Commission considers that the conservation objectives set for sites in Germany are not sufficiently quantified, measurable and reportable." If Germany is found guilty by the court, fines are the probable penalty. Germany's Nature And Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU) said in a written statement that the court case should serve as wake-up call for the federal and state governments to take action. It is "ridiculous" that this is still the subject of dispute seven years after this infringement procedure was opened and almost three decades after the EU Flora Fauna Habitat Regulation entered into force, said NABU's EU expert, Raphael Weyland. The consequences of inadequate protection cannot be overlooked in the North and Baltic Seas, reminded NABU. Scientists there have recently documented a decline in the highly protected harbor porpoise in its nursery in the Sylt outer reef by almost 4% annually over the past two decades. "Neither in protected areas nor in important migration corridors is Germany's only native cetacean effectively protected from the effects of fishing, shipping or offshore wind," criticizes NABU marine conservation expert Kim Detloff. For the federal government to actually implement and enforce these habitat and species protection laws, "sufficient funding is necessary," Weyland said. Based on figures from the German government, NABU estimates that €1.4 billion ($1.7 billion) a year are needed. These can be funded "by reallocating agricultural payments that have so far flowed as lump sums," said Weyland. "But the current plans of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture completely ignore this and thus further risk painful rulings by the European Court of Justice," he said. mb/msh (AFP, dpa)  