New Zealand's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Sunday announced a three-day lockdown in Auckland after three unexplained cases of coronavirus were discovered. After an urgent meeting with her cabinet, Ardern said she and ministers had decided to take a cautious approach until they could find out more about the outbreak. "We have stamped out the virus before and we will do it again," Ardern said at a press conference in the capital, Wellington. The cases identified on Sunday involved a couple and their daughter. Health officials have reached out to airlines, as the woman in the infected family works for an airline catering company in their laundry facilities. The island in the North Atlantic with its waterfalls, volcanoes and glaciers is ready for tourists. Nature lovers and adventurers can travel there, subject to coronavirus regulations. Iceland is one of the few countries in Europe that allows entry for vaccinated people and people who have recovered from COVID-19 infection without the need for testing and quarantine. The Canary Island of La Palma is also almost COVID-free. Tourists traveling from Germany could theoretically enter with a negative PCR test, but La Palma is currently not well served by airlines, as it is part of Spain, a high-incidence country. For those returning from the island, stricter entry rules apply. Hoteliers and letting agents are hoping that the situation will improve from March on. Travel restrictions for Zanzibar were lifted as early as June 2020. Travelers from most countries can enter without a PCR test, entry form, or quarantine needed. On the island, which belongs to Tanzania, there are no restrictions, restaurants are open, and parties and concerts are being held. At the end of March, Lufthansa for the first time plans to offer direct flights to the island of bliss. Tourists go to Rwanda to see mountain gorillas. A negative PCR test must be presented on entry, and a further test done locally. After seven days in quarantine, tourists are then allowed to go on safari to see the gorillas under strict hygiene conditions. The precautionary measures have proven effective. The African country has never been listed as a risk area by Germany's Robert Koch Institute. The archipelago off Africa's east coast beckons with white sandy beaches, turquoise blue sea and lush palm trees. Since January, anyone can enter the country if they have a COVID vaccination certificate and a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours. There is no need for quarantine. The vacation can start immediately. However, as the Seychelles are a risk area, returnees will have to quarantine. The Indian Ocean island nation has seen rising infection rates since December and is considered a risk area. The Maldives have been sticking to their entry policy from July 2020. Tourists can enter with a negative PCR test, but their stay remains limited to the pre-booked resort. Given the luxurious facilities of the hotel complexes, tourists are quite willing to accept these restrictions. Low infection rates mean that travel to Thailand is only discouraged, not warned against. Upon arrival and at their own expense, travelers must undergo 14 days of strict quarantine in a government-approved isolation facility (usually a hotel) and complete several COVID-19 tests. Only then can they move freely within the country. Work at your laptop before jumping into the pool, or vice versa? If you can't stop working, you can "work from home" in faraway countries. Travel operators in several countries, like the Dutch Caribbean island of Aruba (pictured) have recognized the opportunity and offer working holiday options for remote workers. Here too, of course, current coronavirus restrictions must be heeded. Dubai was considered COVID-free as recently as December, but since January 24, it's been considered a high risk area. The Gulf emirate had brought influencers and celebrities to the country and tourists followed, after pictures of carefree pool parties went around the world. Now bars and pubs are closed, limits apply to shopping malls and restaurants. And when they return home, quarantine awaits. The cruise industry is wooing customers back by offering the greatest possible safety. This means lower occupancy rates on the vessels, social distancing on board, mandatory wearing of face masks, daily temperature checks, controlled shore excursions avoiding direct contact with the general public. But this relaxation comes with restrictions, because the coronavirus also knows how to travel. Author: Anne Termèche They are the first local infections to have popped up in the country since January 24. Among the most critical factors are whether the infections are from contagious variants, and the precise nature of any community transmission. The lockdown is New Zealand's first for six months. It represents a significant setback in the nation's largely successful efforts to control coronavirus. The country had successfully stamped out community spread, after closing its international borders and implementing strict social distancing rules early on in the pandemic. There was global envy recently as New Zealanders began to attend concerts and sporting events without being required to wear masks. rs/rc (Reuters, AFP)  