Hong Kong media mogul Jimmy Lai is facing new criminal charges over allegedly assisting a fugitive who tried to escape to Taiwan, local media reported on Wednesday. Lai is the most high-profile person to be charged under a new security law that was implemented by Beijing last year. Despite already being in jail, Lai was arrested once again, reported his Apple Daily tabloid as well as local newspaper Oriental Daily. Neither paper provided further details on his re-arrest. The latest accusations against Lai concern 12 Hong Kong fugitives who were captured at sea by China last year as they tried to make their way to Taiwan. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pDzt Lai is accused of assisting one of the people who tried to escape, Apple Daily reported. The fugitive is being investigated over suspected national security crimes. China's coast guard captured the 12 people in August last year on a boat believed to be bound for Taiwan. The fugitives potentially face charges over mass pro-democracy protests in 2019. The suspects were held in a prison on mainland China until December. Ten of those detained were convicted for illegally crossing the border or organizing the journey. They were handed sentences ranging from seven months to three years. Two others on the boat are minors and were sent back to Hong Kong. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3S8eS The 72-year-old is an entrepreneur and media mogul in Hong Kong. He's the founder of the popular Apple Daily tabloid newspaper,which is known for its critical coverage of China and Hong Kong. He was arrested in August last year in a massive police raid on the Apple Daily's newsroom. He was charged with requesting foreign interference in Hong Kong's affairs in two statements he made last summer. He was charged under the controversial new National Security Law. Beijing imposed the sweeping law on the former British colony last June, following months of pro-democracy protests. The legislation punishes anything that China considers subversion, secession, terrorism or collusion with foreign forces with a life prison sentence. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3h2EQ rs/rt (Reuters, dpa)  