Alaba to leave Bayern Munich Red Bull to use Honda engines despite firm's F1 pull-out Bayern Munich defender David Alaba has announced that he will leave the club at the end of the season after the two parties failed to reach an agreement on a contract extension. The Austrian international joined Bayern as an academy player in 2008 and went on to make 286 Bundesliga appearances - including 17 on loan at Hoffeheim - plus 87 Champions League appearances for the German champions. "I have decided to do something new," said Alaba. "It wasn't an easy decision because I've been here since I was 13." Now 28, the full-back, who has also excelled in midfield, insisted that money was not a reason for his decision and said that he wants to make the most of the final years of his career. "I'd like to develop myself further as a player," he said. Alaba's next destination remains unclear, although Real Madrid, Paris Saint-Germain, Manchester United and Chelsea are all said to be interested. February 15 Formula One's Red Bull are set to join Mercedes and Ferrari in building their own engines after a deal with Honda. The Japanese firm is quitting the sport but Red Bull will administer old Honda engines from 2022, setting up a separate company to do so, and will then look to develop their own engines from 2025. "We now begin the work of bringing the power unit division in-house and integrating the new facilities and personnel into our Technology Campus," Red Bull team boss Christian Horner said in a statement. "In the meantime, we are fully focused on achieving the best possible results in what will be Honda's final season as an official power unit supplier." Formula One driver Fernando Alonso has been released from hospital after breaking his jaw in a cycling crash last week. The Spaniard, returning to the sport with the Alpine (former Renault) team this season after two years away, will be fit for the opener in Bahrain on March 28. Women's world number one Ash Barty reached the Australian Open tennis quarterfinals with a quick 6-3 6-4 win over American Shelby Rogers. Barty is bidding to become the first Australian to win the women's singles on home soil since 1978. Spain's Rafa Nadal coasted through in the men's draw, winning 6-3 6-4 6-2 over Italian 16th seed Fabio Fognini. Second seed Nadal is looking to repeat his 2009 triumph in Melbourne and may be helped by defending champion Novak Djokovic carrying an injury.