It was a short moment, but it changed young Joe DiMeo's life forever. In 2018, 20-year-old DiMeo fell asleep at the wheel after working a night shift. He car flipped over and burst into flames. Another driver on the road pulled DiMeo from the burning vehicle and saved his life, but the young man sustained burns to more than 80% of his body. On Wednesday, doctors at New York University's Langone Medical Center revealed another major change in the now 22-year-old's life: He's the first person in the world to have received a successful face and double hand transplant. The NYU doctors had completed the unprecedented procedure in August 2020 but waited to share the results to make sure DiMeo's body didn't reject the transplants. The surgery took 23 hours and 80 people working in six surgical teams. "We needed to avoid infection, we needed to have this operation occur as fast as possible, we had to be very selective with the donor, and we had to implement every state of the art technology that would ensure complete success of Joe's operation," Dr. Eduardo Rodriguez, head of the team that completed the surgery, told reporters on Wednesday. "And that's exactly what we did." DiMeo before the transplant surgeries... DiMeo lost his eyelids, ears and most of his fingers in the accident. He spent months in a medically induced coma, followed by 20 reconstructive surgeries and skin-grafts to treat his burns. But it became clear that those surgeries wouldn't be enough for DiMeo to return to normalcy with full vision or use of his hands. His doctors began looking for a donor with the same gender, skin-tone and dominant hand as their patient, but estimated there was only a 6 % chance of finding someone to match DiMeo's immune system. With all transplantations, there is always the risk of the body rejecting the transplant as foreign, which is why all patients receive immunosuppressive drugs. Finding a close-as-possible match lowers the risk of a rejection. Even in a case like this, where no adverse immune reaction has taken place roughly half a year after the surgery, there are no guarantees. ... and after the procedure "Initially, there can be problems with the wound not healing properly - the whole face could have gotten infected and then they would have had to take it off again," Dr. Robert Sucher, a surgeon specialized in visceral transplants and kidney, liver and pancreas transplants at Universitätsklinikum Leipzig, told DW. "In the long run, there's the risk of immunological problems, of the body rejecting the transplanted organ. That risk is smaller now after so many months, but it remains for the rest of the patient's life." 'A second chance at life' In Wednesday's news conference, DiMeo could be seen pulling a small notecard from his pocket and reading from it. Other media reports show him playing with his dog or lifting weights at the gym. Getting to this point was not an easy journey. "I knew it would be baby steps all the way," DiMeo told The Associated Press. "You’ve got to have a lot of motivation, a lot of patience. And you’ve got to stay strong through everything." The transplant, he said to reporters on Wednesday, had given him 'a second chance at life." A highly complex procedure There's a reason DiMeo's was the world's first successful face and double hand transplant - it's a highly complex procedure consisting of several surgeries that has only been attempted twice before. A lot of different things have to be taken into consideration, explains Sucher, who has participated in hand transplant surgeries in Austria and the US. In the early 2000s, he was present for one of the world's first double hand transplant procedures in Innsbruck, Austria. Organs like a kidney are easier to transplant, he says, because they involve fewer different kinds of tissues. Rodriguez, the lead doctor on DiMeo's transplant team, also emphasized the complexity of the effort. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ouEn "We have to replace 21 tendons, three major nerves, five major vessels, two major bones," Rodriguez said - per hand. After DiMeo's face was removed, small plates were put on his chin to help attach his new face. Nerves and vasculature were spliced together, to ensure blood flow and bring feeling to the tissue. Prosthetics can't replace the feeling of human touch Sucher said complex procedures like double hand or face transplants have their opponents. The immunosuppressants that patients need to take for the rest of their lives can come with significant side effects and high risks, and unlike a heart transplant, for example, face or hand transplants aren't life-saving, but rather quality-of-life-improving surgeries. DiMeo's mother Rose (left) gave up her job to become her son's caretaker "There are alternatives like prosthetics" for patients who lost their hands, Sucher said. "Robo-hands, basically. But you can't feel with those. They'll always be foreign. And [double hand transplant] patients I've had in Innsbruck have told me 'It's such a special feeling to touch my wife again, to really feel another human being.'" Face transplants, too, hold immense psychological value, Sucher said. "A face is unique," the transplant specialist said. "With a face, you're recognized as a human, as a person. It's what you use to kiss someone. If you look at the before and after pictures [of DiMeo] - whom would you kiss? The man in the after picture." An international study found many of us believe only older people are at risk of heart attacks - and as a result, that only older people have to be careful. But the German Heart Foundation says that's not true. The earlier you start looking after your heart - through an active lifestyle and healthy diet - the better. After all, you've only got one heart! The heart is a marvel of technology. The fist-sized, hollow muscle contracts about 70 times per minute, pumping up to 10,000 liters of blood through the body. And it does that your whole life. If necessary, the heart can pump about five times that much blood - for instance, when we are jogging. The heart may be "just" a muscle - but it's a very special one. Like the muscles in your legs and arms, it can contract as fast and with as much power. But the heart has incredible stamina, and never gets tired. What's more, all heart muscle cells are linked, so they contract in unison. If a heart beats slower than it should, a patient can be fitted with a pacemaker. First implanted in 1958, the device sends electrical impulses to the heart muscle. These days, pacemakers can function for from five to 12 years - on average, about eight. To operate on a heart, surgeons have to stop it temporarily. This halts the circulation of blood - which would technically be fatal. But in the 1950s, scientists were able to solve this problem by developing the heart-lung machine. That machine takes over the function of the heart and lungs, enriching the blood with oxygen and pumping it through the body. Modern medicine allows doctors to examine and perform surgery on the heart without cutting open the patient's ribcage. Instead, an intracardiac catheter - more or less a thin plastic tube - is inserted through veins and arteries in the groin, the elbow or the wrist. This tube is then pushed into the heart, requiring only local anesthesia. If a heart valve is not working or worn out, you need a new one. Doctors might use a biological replacement from pigs, and mechanical heart valves made from metal are also an alternative. Modern artificial heart valves are foldable (pictured above) and can be inserted in endoscopic surgery via a catheter. This way, no open-heart operation is needed. The first heart transplantation took place in 1967 - quite a sensation, back then. Nowadays, this operation is no longer a rarity. Every year, surgeons around the world transplant several thousand donor hearts from people who have died. The patients who receive a donor heart, however, have to take medication for the rest of their lives to prevent their own body from rejecting the foreign organ. Donor hearts are rare, and there are waiting lists for recipients. If a heart is not working properly anymore, an artificial heart may support it. In that case, the sick heart stays in the body, and is supported by an implanted pump. This pump is powered by an external energy supply. One research dream is to create an artifical heart that can replace the sick patient's heart completely. It would be inserted into the body, not require any external connection and would beat for many years without failure. Not an easy task - although some prototypes already exist. Author: Brigitte Osterath / za