Prosecutors in Itzehoe announced charges against a former Nazi concentration camp secretary on Friday. The case is a rare one for German prosecutors, who in recent years have taken a number of  former concentration camp guards and accountants to court. Secretaries and female staff members have not faced charges in years. The woman is accused of "having assisted those responsible at the camp in the systematic killing of Jewish prisoners, Polish partisans and Soviet Russian prisoners of war," prosecutors said in a statement. She served as secretary to the commander of the Stutthof camp from June 1943 to April 1945, according to the statement. The camp was located near what was then known as Danzig, now Gdansk. An estimated 65,000 people were murdered at the Stutthof concentration camp She is charged with "aiding and abetting murder in more than 10,000 cases" as well as being complicit in attempted murder at the camp. German prosecutors have been investigating her case since 2016, carrying out interviews with Holocaust survivors in Israel and the United States. Although prosecutors did not identify the woman, she is reportedly 95-years-old and lives north of the city of Hamburg, according to local newspaper Hamburger Abendblatt. In her function as a secretary to concentration camp commander Paul Werner Hoppe, prosecutors argue that she served a key role in the functioning of the Stuffhof camp. She was previously called upon as a witness in other cases, according to an investigative report published last year by local public broadcaster NDR. In 1954, the former secretary testified that the commander dictated letters to her daily. She also said all of the correspondence with the SS department in charge of running the concentration camps came across her desk. Twenty-one defendants were tried in 1945 and 1946 before the International Military Tribunal, a court that had been created specifically for the task of prosecuting war crimes. Among them were Nazi party functionaries, senior military officers, civil servants, diplomats and industrialists — and all had served the Nazi regime. The Soviets initially wanted the trials to take place in Berlin, the capital of the Nazi regime. However, Nuremberg's Palace of Justice was deemed more suitable as it had not been badly damaged by the war, and it also boasted a large jail. The fact that Nuremberg had been the site of the Nazi Party's rallies (seen above in 1934) also lent the location a symbolic significance. As vice chancellor, Franz von Papen (center) tried to keep Adolf Hitler in check as part of a coalition government. But he was soon marginalized and relegated to a secondary role as a diplomat. In Nuremberg, he was acquitted of being involved in the annexation of Austria, only to later be sentenced to eight years of hard labor by a West German denazification court. He was released in 1949. Hermann Göring (right) was the highest-ranking Nazi in the dock, considered the second most powerful man in Germany after Hitler. Yet he denied any knowledge or responsibility for the concentration camps. Göring was found guilty on all charges and sentenced to death — but he committed suicide by taking cyanide the night before his execution in October 1946. From the start, Rudolf Hess was an unswerving supporter of the Nazi regime and Hitler, who appointed him deputy party leader in 1933. In 1941, he flew to Scotland on his own initiative in an attempt to arrange peace talks with the British government. In Nuremberg, he was sentenced to life imprisonment. In 1987, at the age of 93, he hanged himself in Spandau Prison, which was under Allied control. As governor-general of occupied Poland, Hans Frank was partly responsible for the murder of hundreds of thousands of people, overseeing the creation of ghettos and extermination camps. In a 1939 speech, he said of the Jews "the more die, the better." On the witness stand in Nuremberg, he expressed some remorse. After he was sentenced to death by hanging, he said: "I deserve and expect it." The trial of Joachim von Ribbentrop (left, with Josef Stalin in 1939) made it clear that Germany's Foreign Office was deeply implicated in the crimes of the Nazi regime. Germany's embassies and consulates worked closely with the SS paramilitary and other Nazi organizations to deport and murder Jewish citizens. Ribbentrop, who showed no remorse, was the first defendant to be executed by hanging. Albert Speer (second from left) was the leading architect of the Nazi regime. Hitler was a great fan of his monumental designs, but the Nuremberg tribunal was more interested in his activities as armaments and war production minister. Speer presented himself as a misguided idealist and concealed his responsibility in helping to expand the concentration camps. He narrowly escaped the death penalty. Originally a diplomat, he turned steel magnate after marrying into the Krupp industrialist family. At first he kept his distance from Hitler, but later he became involved because of his company's role in the armaments industry. Krupp (seen at right) exploited over 100,000 forced laborers and concentration camp inmates, but wasn't tried in Nuremberg because he was considered medically unfit. As commander-in-chief of the German navy, Karl Dönitz (center) was known for giving orders to submarine crews that verged on the suicidal. Before taking his life at the end of the war, Hitler appointed him president. Dönitz was sentenced to 10 years in prison in Nuremberg, but insisted for the rest of his life that he had been an apolitical career officer and had done nothing wrong. Author: Christoph Hasselbach In an interview with an NDR reporter, she claimed to have only found out about the mass killings at Stuffhof after World War II ended. She told the reporter that her office window faced away from the camp. As the woman was younger than 21-years-old during her time as secretary of the camp, a juvenile court will hear the case. The court in Itzehoe will decide whether to admit the charges and open a trial against the women. It is not clear how long the process will take. Germany has been racing to prosecute surviving former staff of Nazi concentration camps, as the number of witnesses and alleged perpetrators dwindles. A 2011 case against a a former concentration camp guard set a legal precedent allowing courts to convict camp staff rather than just the officers in charge. Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that Danzig was in Nazi-occupied Poland. It was in fact, part of the Free City of Danzig.   rs/rt (AFP, dpa)