The husband of British Queen Elizabeth II was admitted into the private King Edward VII Hospital in London on Tuesday evening. A Buckingham Palace spokesperson said his admission was "a precautionary measure" taken on the advice of Philip's doctor. Also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, the senior royal is expected to remain in hospital for a few days of "observation and rest." His illness is not related to COVID-19 and he was said to be in "good spirits" after arriving by private transport and not an ambulance. Both he and the 94-year old queen  were vaccinated against the coronavirus in early January. During England's current coronavirus lockdown, the prince has been staying at Windsor Castle, west of London, with the queen since their age puts them at high risk. Within an hour of his arrival, camera crews and photographers from Britain, Australia, France and Germany began gathering outside the hospital where policemen stood guard. "Really sorry to hear that His Royal Highness, the Duke of Edinburgh is in hospital," British Health Secretary Matt Hancock said. "Sending him my best wishes for a speedy recovery." Now 99-years old, the prince has retired from his royal duties and rarely appears in public, this picture is from December 2017 Philip married the then-Princess Elizabeth in 1947 and is the longest-serving royal consort in British history. Together, he and the queen have four children, eight grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. A Greek-born former naval officer, Philip is known for his sometimes brusque manner and humour. During their marriage, Philip shelved his personal ambitions to support his wife, sharing her sense of duty and tradition. While the queen has reduced her public engagements in recent years, her son and heir, Prince Charles, has taken an increasingly leading role, alongside his eldest son Prince William and wife Kate. Though he has enjoyed a rather robust life into old age, over the last decade, Philp has endured a number of health issues. These include suffering from an infection, which kept him in hospital for two-nights, and later having a hip operation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2he60 Philip retired from his royal duties in 2017 and now rarely appears in public. However, two years later, at the age of 97, he gave up his driver's license after a car crash involving his Land Rover. He was most recently admitted to hospital at the end of 2019, spending four nights in the same facility he is in now.  Elizabeth's love for these little four-legged friends is legendary. Aside from her family, the corgis have been her lifelong companions at Windsor Castle, Balmoral or Sandringham estate. Gossip papers have often joked that the queen could never be blackmailed. Unless, perhaps, someone were reckless enough to put a gun to one of her corgi's heads. Royal biographers have recounted tales of a difficult family life for the royals. A prime example: the distanced, strictly protocol handshake the young queen shared with a toddler Prince Charles after reuniting following a long trip abroad. And Philip was no softy, either; on the contrary, he was quite strict. This picture shows an emotional moment from recent English history: the last time the Brits won the football World Cup, defeating the Germans 4-2 after extra time in the 1966 final. Did Prince Philip, with his German heritage, feel a sense of sympathy for Uwe Seeler and the rest of the boys? Probably not, given his wide smile in the photo above. After the death of Princess Diana in a car crash in 1997, sympathy for the royal family was at an all-time low. For too long, the queen had been silent about the misfortunes of the popular people's princess. Only by making a public, albeit late, visit to the memorial site outside Buckingham Palace was she able to regain the public's favor. Prince Charles, the firstborn, has lived a life as perpetual heir to the throne. Even at the age of 91, his mother refuses to step down. With Charles nearing 70, it's quite possible that he will never become king. Next in the line of succession: his far more popular son, William. Elizabeth and Philip live an asymmetrical marriage. Protocol knows no mercy: Elizabeth must always go first, even when it comes to feeding elephants. But the prince has managed to carve out a life for himself as a No. 2. He is loyal, but has developed his own style that's at times insensitive, at times witty — and incredibly gaffe-prone. Prince Philip has always been one for jokes — even those at the expense of his wife. Back in 2002, he was amused to see the caricature of Elizabeth featured in the TV series "EastEnders" on display at The Cartoon Museum in London, of which he's a patron. But not too amused — there was his decades-long marriage to think about, of course. Author: Volker Wagener (cmk) mb/msh (AP, Reuters)   