Just as his senses of smell and taste were returning three months after a suspected coronavirus infection in April 2020, Ricky Thomson tested positive for coronavirus in August and lost them again. "They were just starting to come back and then they were gone again," he told DW. For Thomson, a 28-year-old Australian electronic engineer living in London, six months with a diminished sense of smell and taste was a reminder of how powerfully our senses tether us to reality, and how smell is one we often take for granted. It was also potentially embarrassing. "When gyms started to open back up and I went along, I was really self-conscious that I smelt bad because I just had no idea — I couldn't do a deodorant check or anything," he said. A loss of one's sense of smell, called anosmia, was once a relatively unfamiliar condition. Now, it has emerged as a key diagnostic marker of COVID-19 — the disease caused by the coronavirus. The exact percentage of people experiencing smell loss varies between studies, but most research finds it to be a common side-affect. For some, it's their only symptom and for many, it lasts well beyond other side-effects of the disease, such as a fever and chest tightness. Often, people also experience a loss of taste alongside their inability to smell, called ageusia. They may even experience the disappearance of chemesthesis — sensitivity of the tongue. Smell is usually the one sense people say they could do without. But researchers point out that smell is far more central to our lives than we often realize. Beyond being potentially dangerous because people are unable to sniff out leaking gas, smoke from a fire, and food that's gone bad, it can reduce the motivation to eat altogether. A loss of the sense of smell can be "extremely traumatic for people," said Rachel Herz, a psychologist and neuroscientist at Brown University in the United States (US). "Unfortunately, many people don't realize that," she told DW. Smell is connected to our emotions in intense ways, and is intricately tied to our social lives, experiences of intimacy, our memories and sense of self, Herz explained.  Experts say smell is often overlooked as a important factor in how we relate to one another Odors are processed differently than the other four senses. It is the only sense that bypasses the thalamus — the brain's sensory relay center — and goes directly to the primary olfactory cortex, where we process and store our memories. "That neurobiological pathway is why smell conjures up such strong memories and reactions," said Julie Walsh-Messinger, a clinical psychologist at the University of Dayton in the US. "Our sense of smell is really what drives social behaviour," said Walsh-Messinger, who after many years studying smell-loss at an academic level found herself enduring it first-hand after a bout of COVID-19 in March 2020. "You can deal without smell for a couple of days, a week, but when you are facing the prospect of never being able to smell again, that’s really difficult," she told DW. Smell has been identified as one subtle way humans can detect fear in others. And research has shown that odor influences how physically attractive we perceive others to be. A loss of smell or impaired smell have also been linked to higher rates of depression and anxiety. Research published in July 2020 found that people who had regained their sense of smell after losing it due to COVID-19 saw an improvement in their mental wellbeing and level of social interaction. Although the science is not entirely understood yet, an emerging consensus holds that the coronavirus disrupts cells in the nose when it enters, leading to the loss of smell. It's thought to work like this: in order to infect humans, the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19 needs to enter cells. In the nose, there is a patch called the olfactory epithelium, which is home to olfactory neurons — the cells responsible for detecting smell — and two other types of cells, basal cells and supporting cells. Supporting cells have a high number of the kind of enzyme (the ACE-2 receptor) that is needed for the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 to enter. That means the virus binds very easily to these kinds of cells in the nose, and as it does, scientists believe it creates inflammation, causing the olfactory sensory neurons to shut down, explains Herz. "One thing I have a pet peeve about is people not covering their noses with their masks," the neuroscientist told DW. "Because that is a primary route of entry for the virus." The mechanism through which the virus impacts people's sense of taste and chemesthesis is not yet clear, says Masha Niv, an associate professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Israel and head of the university's Niv Lab that researches smell and taste. "Taste is impaired in many COVID-19 patients — around 70% —, and we know it is really taste, because sweet, salty, bitter, sour tastes are reported as impaired," Niv told DW. A large international study in June 2020 co-authored by Niv found that chemesthesis affected about 50% of COVID-19 patients that reported loss of smell and taste.  Experts say most people can re-train their sense of smell with a range of fragrant scents Although taste and chemesthesis are distinct senses that rely on taste receptors and sensory nerves, in combination with smell, all three play a role in what we consider the "taste" of food and drink to be. In fact, research shows that most of what people consider the "flavor" of food and drink is actually smelling. "Chemesthsis loss does not occur without smell and taste also being hurt," Niv said. For Ricky Thomson, this was the strangest part of his experience with the loss of his senses. "When my taste was coming back it was all over the place, some things would make me sick out of nowhere," he said. "Now [after COVID] I can eat olives and capsicum because their intensity has really toned down, whereas before I wasn't a fan at all."  Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pTz4 When smell loss was first identified as a symptom of COVID-19, researchers feared the virus was infecting the olfactory neurons in the nose that send signals to the brain, and therefore had a route straight to the brain. But this theory was put to rest with post-mortem studies of COVID-19 patients, which showed SARS-CoV-2 hardly reaches the brain. For most people, re-training the nose to smell is an option, said Herz. Researchers recommend gathering a range of potent scents — such as lemon, cinnamon, cloves, and mint, for example —and smelling them individually for about 10 seconds each, several times a day for a few months. Then switch to another set of scents. This way, Herz says, the brain is re-trained to recognize smell, causing the scent receptors to be re-stimulated and re-activated. "The good news is, you haven't had neurological damage to these sensory neurons through COVID-19," said Herz. "Generally speaking in these cases there is hope for recovery." As for Ricky, his sense of smell and taste have mostly returned to normal without smell training. And when gyms in London open up again, he can finally go along a little less self-consciously — safe in the knowledge he is fully attuned to the odor of his armpits. Musician Kaitlyn Hova sees the music she plays in colors. To show the world what she sees, she built a glowing violin that lights up in different colors when different notes are played. People with this perception associate different senses (like sight and sound, taste and touch) in their heads. This is called synesthesia. Four percent of people are 'synesthetes'. How do they perceive the world? Caroline Beier is a doctor in Hamburg, Germany. Her synesthesia helped her to remember things better in school because she sees letters and numbers in different colors and in 3D: for example, eight is always a cucumber-green, three is grass-green, four is yellow like the sun and number two creamy-white. To remember 18 x 18, she sees two dark green cucumbers in a light-green vegetable stand with a yellow and white-striped awning. Sounds can also be associated with colors. This helps Alexandra Kirschner in her profession as a voice trainer for a boys' choir near Stuttgart. She hears different voices in different colors. For Alexandra, higher voices are often yellow, and lower voices are dark blue. When someone sings, she sees the tones as circles in front of her. If one tone is off, the color of the circle is grey, blurry and out of line. If one has a form of synesthesia, the chance of experiencing a connection of more sensations is higher. Not only sounds trigger colors for Alexandra Kirschner, but also touch. If she pinches her arm briefly, for example, a pinkish light-blue ellipse appears in her head as if drawn by a pencil. Colors can also trigger tastes. When she sees a pink wool sweater she tastes strawberry ice cream. It isn't just the case that people see the color of sound — colors can also evoke sounds. Musician Katja Krüger automatically hears certain tones when she sees certain colours. As with almost all synesthetes, the connections developed when she was a child — before she even played an instrument. When Katja sees a red balloon in front of her, she hears the note "A" played by an oboe. Once Krüger even wrote down the sound of a Nefertiti statue in music notes. If she looks at the colours of Nefertiti's head from bottom to top, she can transform them into notes. From this she has written a whole piece of music. Some people, like Martin Schmiederer, have many forms of synesthesia at once. So there can be quite a lot going on in his head. The scientist and philosopher can remember passages of text well with his color and sound codes. Despite his 21 forms of synesthesia, he rarely experiences a sensory overload. He is able to concentrate on several perceptions, but can also ignore them. For him, different sensory experiences are like blocks building up on top of each other. He sees colors in different places. For example, when hearing the lowercase 'k', Martin sees it in the upper left corner of the room in a blackish-green in 3D. When he reads it, he tastes something that reminds him of the dentist. If he speaks it, the tone produces a color that appears at the bottom right. Synesthesia is not a disease, but simply another way of perceiving things. Most people find their additional sensations pleasant, but they can also push them into the background. Alexandra Kirschner and Martin Schmiederer, for example, both say that they don't like to wear scratchy woollen sweaters because this feeling evokes an unpleasant color. Synesthesia isn't just an illusion. MRI scans have shown that the brain areas are active for different senses. There are also genetic connections. But many people don't know they have synesthesia because their impressions are completely normal. Famous synesthetes include Lady Gaga, Pharell Williams, as well as artist Wassily Kandinsky and philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein. Author: Elisa Miebach (hf) 