Just because you don't have symptoms, it doesn't mean you don't have COVID. Most people have understood that by now. It also means that you could be spreading the disease unwittingly, which is one of the factors that make it so hard to contain. But researchers from Mount Sinai hospital in New York City have hit upon a potential new diagnostic tool: The Apple Watch. In their "Warrior Watch Study," researchers from the Icahn School of Medicine at the Mount Sinai hospital network in New York City found that Apple Watches picked up on subtle changes in people's heartbeats up to seven days before they were diagnosed with COVID-19. Researchers focused on changes in the study participants' heart rate variability (HRV). A high heart rate variability is a sign of an active, adaptable nervous system — and also signals that a person's immune system is working well. “The watch showed significant changes in HRV metrics up to seven days before individuals had a positive nasal swab confirming COVID-19 infection," Dr. Robert P. Hirten, Assistant Professor of Medicine (Gastroenterology) at the Icahn School of Medicine and the study's corresponding author, said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pBFv For the "Warrior Watch Study," researchers observed 297 health care workers at the Mount Sinai Health System between April 29 and September 29. They all wore Apple Watches and used the corresponding app on their phones. In individuals who later tested positive for COVID-19, the time between two heartbeats varied significantly less than in those who tested negative. Information like this could be crucial in the fight against the coronavirus. "Developing a way to identify people who might be sick even before they know they are infected would really be a breakthrough in the management of COVID-19," Dr. Hirten said. After all, it is asymptomatic virus-spreaders who make it "difficult to contain this infection by using the traditional method of identifying someone who is sick and quarantining them." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pBES Mount Sinai's "Warrior Watch Study" is ongoing. Other researchers have also found benefits in so-called wearables like the Apple Watch, Fitbit and other fitness trackers. A study published in the journal Nature Biomedical Engineering found that smartwatch data can help detect COVID-19 before it's diagnosed through a test. The researchers from Stanford University looked at factors including heart rate, number of daily steps or time asleep. Retrospectively, they found for example that "63% of the COVID-19 cases could have been detected before symptom onset in real-time via a two-tiered warning system based on the occurrence of extreme elevations in resting heart rate relative to the individual baseline," the authors state in their paper. For the study, they had recruited 5,262 participants and then analyzed physiological and activity data of 32 of them who contracted COVID. cb/fs (with Mount Sinai, Nature Biomedical Engineering) The sundial dates back to Ancient Egypt and is one of the earliest known forms of timekeeping. It still has a strong popular following today, with many towns taking the design of the sundial as an opportunity to install artworks that integrate this intriguing predecessor of the clock. Its downside, however, is that when the sun isn't shining, there simply is no telling what time it actually is. Not just a symbol for the ideal female silhouette, the hourglass measures time like a stopwatch and not so much like a clock. When all the sand is down, your time is up. The exact origins of the hourglass are unknown but the earliest mention of it is found in the early Middle Ages - and it hasn't gone out of fashion since. Even today, many people continue to adorn their homes with hourglasses. This modern contraption is a water clock, but a more primitive model of it could likely date back to the 16th century BC or even earlier. Similar to the hourglass, the water clock determines the passing of time by a substance - water, in this case - flowing from one chamber to the other. This shopping mall in Berlin features a more artistic design of a water clock from 1982. The pocket watch is widely seen as the father of the wristwatch. Attached to a chain, gentlemen used to carry their pocket watches in their jacket pockets. Despite going out of style after the two World Wars, the pocket watch has been enjoying a recent revival as the must-have accessory of hipsters. Women have also taken to this rather old-fashioned piece as well lately. It would appear that when it comes to luxury products, the sky is the limit for wristwatches. Of course there are established brand names such as Rolex, Omega, Rado, Tag Heuer and many others, but for some playboys these watches are actually considered entry-level models. There are wristwatches on the market that sell for more than one million euros, making this bling a form of investment. Those who can't afford fancy watches can at least have lots of fun with them. The 1980s and 1990s saw the rise of the Swatch brand, which gave people an opportunity to express themselves creatively with the company's colorful and unusual designs. The watchmaker also turned the idea of a wristwatch on its head, marketing the plastic product as more of a durable accessory than time-teller. There are also clocks and watches we dread. No one likes the feeling of being on the clock at work, and yet the punch clock has somehow managed to meander its way into our lives and is unlikely to leave any time soon. You clock in when you arrive and clock out when you leave. While it can establish fairness in the workplace, the punchclock is also a symbol of everyday monotony. This image might fill drivers with dread. The parking meter mocks us daily, charging exorbitant prices and forcing you to rush back to your car. While many now take credit cards instead of coins, old-fashioned models are still widespread. The first parking meter in the world was installed in Oklahoma City in 1935. Atomic clocks are the most precise timekeepers in the world, as they cannot fall victim to gravity. The complicated physics behind the atomic clock ensure the world agrees on what time it is, no matter what time zone you may be in. Atomic clocks used atom temperature and electronic transition frequencies - and form the basis of international navigation systems like GPS. The future holds many promising developments for clocks and watches, as wearable formats continue to grow in popularity. The Apple Watch and smart watches are small computers, rather than timepieces. Will they soon make simple watches and clocks redundant? Author: Sertan Sanderson