If you've ever been on a tour of a cleanroom — a sterile environment where engineers build and test satellites and other spacecraft — you will know it's a pretty surreal experience. You're standing there, starring up at a rough and unfinished-looking object, seemingly wrapped in kitchen aluminum foil, with wires and solar panels at various angles, and it's tough imagining what this thing will do when it's in its operational environment. The engineers will tell you: This towering object is an instrument of precision and beauty. It will observe our planet Earth and deliver valuable data on our changing environment, monitor the oceans or track migration and military movements. But it's virtually impossible to truly get what that means. You're unlikely to be one of the comparably few humans ever to see this thing in action, in situ. So imagine how surreal it was to tour a spacecraft, or as DW did this Tuesday (February 2, 2021), a set of European Service Modules (ESMs) via a shaky YouTube channel. You're not even in the cleanroom but in front of a computer screen. And the tour is a series of pre-recorded and pre-scripted video statements with bad sound. It was white noise — static — for the first ten minutes. But we already knew that the ESMs form an integral part of Orion, a human spacecraft that will fly astronauts to the moon and an orbiting lunar base called Gateway. We also knew that Orion belongs to Artemis, NASA's human spaceflight program that aims to get humans back to the moon by 2024. So, we had a head start. And YouTube being YouTube, we got to watch the whole tour again later anyway. Andreas Hammer, Airbus's Head of Space Exploration, delivered opening remarks from a cleanroom in Bremen, where the event was meant to be held in person. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, however, that got nixed. So, there he was, all alone, dressed in a white lab coat and hair net. Airbus' Andreas Hammer never ceases to be amazed by the European Service Modules Right off the bat, Hammer said attempts to send humans back to the moon started in Bremen, where those ESMs were being constructed. And the ESMs, said Hammer, were the Orion's "powerhouse." There are three ESMs so far. They will provide air, electricity and propulsion, thermal control and all the consumables for the astronauts, including oxygen and water. ESA's just commissioned a further three units from Airbus. Without the ESMs, there would be no human spaceflight with Orion, no mission. "Nothing in space is simple," said Hammer's colleague Didier Radola, who heads the Orion ESM program at Airbus, and as such, no one goes to space alone. Artemis may be an American program but the Americans have drafted European know-how and technology to get the job done. Hammer stood in front of ESM2, which is almost completely integrated and ready for the Artemis 2 mission, which will fly astronauts around the moon. It will be tested and handed over to NASA later this year. ESM1 has already been delivered to the Americans. It's soon to be integrated with the rest of the spacecraft, ready to be loaded with fuel and launched by the end of 2021. "You can see propellant tanks, cables, electronic devices. It's an incredible piece of machinery and I never get tired of getting totally amazed when I see and touch that," said Hammer. Germany's star astronaut, Alexander Gerst, made some inspirational remarks about human travel to the moon, replete with the usual clichés. But Gerst is good talent, a good communicator. Gerst calls the moon "our 8th continent." Going back to the moon will bring us the "knowledge of tomorrow," he says, including science on living sustainably on Earth and long term on the moon. He's also excited about bringing samples of moon and Mars rock back to Earth. European astronaut Alexander Gerst and colleagues see Gerst as a front-runner for an Orion mission But later, during a Q&A session, ESA's outgoing director general, Jan Wörner, reminded us, that he is not a fan of "going back to the moon." Saying were "going back" is too much like our returning or repeating what was last done during the Apollo moon missions between 1969 and 1972 — and that smacks of the Cold War era, said Wörner. Instead, he wants us to go #ForwardToTheMoon. And then beyond — a reference to Mars and, no doubt, the three Mars missions (USA, UAE, China) that are about to arrive at the Red Planet. But whether humans get back to the moon by 2024 depends, says Wörner, on the priorities of America's new political administration under President Joe Biden. So, we'll have to "look forward" to see what happens. There is one area where the space community seems entirely backward-looking, however. During the Q&A session, talk turned to the lucky astronauts who would get to fly first on Orion. Walther Pelzer, Director General of the German Space Agency (DLR), spoke highly of Gerst's chances: "Of course we're interested in having a European astronaut with a German passport among them," said Pelzer. "But he should be experienced. He should have shown that he's a good leader, and Gerst showed he's an exceptional leader when he was commander of the International Space Station and the mission didn't go as planned." That's our emphasis on all those he's. Those comments, while true, seemed to ignore that a "she" or gender-neutral individual may hold those very same qualities as well. ESA has just commissioned Airbus to build a further three ESMs DW just had to follow-up. We asked: "What is ESA actively doing to address the gender imbalance in space?" So far, the bulk of astronauts who have been able to gain any experience at all — whether that's given them exceptional qualities or not — have been men. Ergo, the opportunities to be among the first to fly on Orion will be skewed in favor of men. Jan Wörner smiled and said progress started with the language we all use. "If you say 'manned spaceflight,' then it's already decided," said Wörner, "and that's not good. So, it's better to talk about human spaceflight or, in German, "astronautische Raumfahrt" (astronautical spaceflight). Sometimes, said Wörner, "I've hidden behind what happened in the past and during the last intake of astronauts we only had about 16% female candidates but that's not a good argument for the future and ESA will do what it can to promote female astronauts." David Parker, ESA's Director of Human and Robotic Exploration, then added that Italy's Samantha Cristoforetti would return to the ISS and will therefore gain the same level of experience as the rest of the European astronaut corps. "So, I don't know why you would discount her chances," he said. We don't. Pelzer, who recently replaced Pascale Ehrenfreund at DLR, mentioned Anna Rathsman, the head of the Swedish National Space Agency. "Yes," said Pelzer, "ESA's new DG is a man, but we just appointed Rathsman as the chair of the ESA Council, so we are going in the right direction." What is the right direction for the future of human spaceflight? Looking at the faces on the call, however, all the official representatives were men. And that is the overall picture at ESA, where 10 of the 11 top jobs are held by men, and Wörner's replacement, Josef Aschbacher, who assumes the role later this year, was chosen from a largely male list of candidates (one source told us it was roughly 85% male). Our virtual tour and call ended with an odd feeling of deflation. You normally get a chance to chat to familiar faces, colleagues from other media outlets, while the room empties. You might even get some feedback. But not here, where one gets the nagging feeling that virtual tours suit ESA's style. It's easier to control the message when the tour is pre-recorded and the moderator can mute unruly journos. Americans showed their pride over the 1969 moon landing with events across the country. The Washington Monument, a 169-meter (555 feet) pillar of marble in the US capital, was turned into a display with images of the lunar mission and a moving projection of the 111-meter Saturn V rocket, which took the Apollo 11 astronauts to the moon. US Vice President Mike Pence (left) praised the Apollo 11 team as "heroes" at a celebration at the US spaceport Cape Canaveral. Half a century ago, a team consisting of pilot Michael Collins, Buzz Aldrin (right) and Neil Armstrong took off from the US base to reach Earth's natural satellite. Armstrong, the first man to set foot on the moon, died in 2012. This picture, taken by Armstrong, shows Aldrin planting a long sheet of foil designed to capture material radiated by the sun. The two men stayed on the lunar surface for a little over 2 1/2 hours. On Saturday, NASA replayed the original broadcast of the landing seen by half a billion people in 1969. Australians also marked the Apollo 11 anniversary by gathering around the Parkes Radio Telescope for a screening of the 2000 film "The Dish." The movie tells the story of Australians and NASA employees working together and using the Parkes telescope to support the moon landing. Parkes was one of three tracking stations around the world tasked with beaming live pictures of the event. In Wistow, Leicestershire, east of Birmingham, the owners of an 8-acre maze that attracts more than 25,000 visitors every summer chose to mark the 50th anniversary of the moon landing with a design depicting an astronaut. Further south in London, the city marked the jubilee by showing a mosaic image of the moon at Piccadilly Circus at the moment of the 1969 touchdown. British artist Helen Marshall created the image out of thousands of photos sent by members of the public. The mosaic was projected simultaneously in London, New York and Singapore. In Shanghai, an artistic installation by UK artist Luke Jerram shows a high-definition image of the Earth taken in 1972. When people view the installation from 211 meters (about 700 feet) away, it would be exactly the same as the view from the moon in 1969. To make the experience more vivid, there are over 1,000 square meters of simulated moon land, where visitors can leave their footprints. NASA plans to send new astronauts to the moon by 2024 with its Artemis program, named after the goddess and twin sister of Apollo in Greek mythology. The program is set to include a platform that would orbit the moon, called Gateway, with astronauts traveling in the Orion crew capsule (pictured). The ultimate goal, however, is much further away: a journey to Mars. While the Apollo 11 veterans attended the celebrations in the US, a team of astronauts took off for the International Space Station (ISS) from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. The team includes American Andrew Morgan, Russian Alexander Skvortsov, and Italian Luca Parmitano. The trio modeled their mission patches after the ones used by the famous 1969 team. Author: Darko Janjevic  