Myanmar's military seized control of the country on Monday and detained leading politicians, including Nobel Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi. The army declared a state of emergency for one year, accusing authorities of failing to resolve allegations of fraud in November's election. Commander-in-Chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing said new elections would be held, but he gave no time frame. He pledged to practice "the genuine discipline-flourishing multiparty democratic system" in a fair manner. World powers, including the United States, have condemned the coup and called for elected leaders to be released. Soldiers have been deployed in the capital city, Naypyitaw, as well as in the commercial hub of Yangon and other cities. Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy — which won 83% of the vote two months ago— released a statement in her name. "The actions of the military are actions to put the country back under a dictatorship," the statement quoted her as saying. "I urge people not to accept this, to respond and wholeheartedly to protest against the coup by the military." Party chairman Win Htein said it was authentic and reflected Suu Kyi's wishes. Soldiers have been deployed in the capital city, Naypyitaw, in Yangon and in other cities Tensions have been running high between the civilian government and army officials since November. Military-backed opposition parties had demanded a rerun of the election. Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, was ruled by the military for almost five decades until democratic reforms began in 2011. The Reuters news agency reported that mobile internet data connections and some phone services have been disrupted. State broadcaster MRTV said its radio and television operations were off the air due to technical problems. "Due to current communication difficulties we'd like to respectfully inform you that the regular programmes of MRTV and Myanmar Radio cannot be broadcast," the company said on Facebook. Since gaining independence from Britain in 1948, Myanmar has seen two previous coups — in 1962 and 1988. Romain Caillaud, an associate fellow with the Myanmar Studies Program at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore, told DW that the military's actions overnight marked "a huge setback" 10 years after the start of the transition to democracy. "The consequences will be dire," he said. "This is a different world from 1988, with globalization, social media, COVID-19, a new US administration and China's infrastructure ambition. Backlash against the Tatmadaw will be intense," he added, referring to the army by its Burmese name. Hunter Marston, a political analyst and an expert on Southeast Asian affairs, said the coup "signals a return to long-term military rule." "The coup has irreparably damaged the very limited trust that was built between the civilian government and the military. It also shows that it will require several years or perhaps decades to rebuild the relationship." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Ya0j Washington has said it "opposes any attempt to alter the outcome of recent elections or impede Myanmar's democratic transition." The US is "alarmed by reports that the Burmese military has taken steps to undermine the country's democratic transition," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said, using the country's former name. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called on the army to "reverse these actions immediately," and a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called the developments "a serious to democratic reforms in Myanmar." Australia has urged Myanmar's military to release all the detained leaders, adding that the army was "once again seeking to seize control." Human Rights Watch said the coup was "a real disaster for human rights and democracy in Myanmar." "What we've seen is an election ... essentially torn up over electoral fraud allegations that have not been proved," the NGO's deputy Asia director Phil Robertson told DW. "People are not prepared to go back to military rule. And I think that there's going to be a strong reaction from the international community to really put Myanmar back into pariah status, including facing economic sanctions." Suu Kyi played a key role in the 1988 protests against the military junta, spending nearly 15 years under house arrest in the period from 1989 to 2010. She is the daughter of General Aung San, who fought for independence from British colonial rule. The Nobel laureate was once seen as a human rights champion on the international stage. She won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991, with the jury hailing her as "an outstanding example of the power of powerless." But in recent years, her reputation has been overshadowed by the country's treatment of its mostly Muslim Rohingya minority. Aung San Suu Kyi leaves the International Court of Justice in 2019 In 2017, hundreds of thousands of Rohingya fled to neighboring Bangladesh due to a military crackdown after a series of deadly attacks on police stations in the state of Rakhine. Her former supporters say she turned a blind eye to rape, murder and possible genocide by refusing to condemn the military or acknowledge accounts of atrocities. Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of Myanmar's assassinated founding father Aung San, returned to her home country in the late 1980s after studying and starting a family in England. She became a key figure in the 1988 uprisings against the country's military dictatorship. Her National League for Democracy (NLD) was victorious in 1990 elections, but the government refused to honor the vote. Suu Kyi spent 15 of the 21 years between 1989 and 2010 under house arrest. After 1995, the rights advocate was barred from seeing her two sons and husband, Michael Aris, even after the latter was diagnosed with cancer. Aris, seen here displaying an honorary doctorate awarded to his wife, died in 1999. Suu Kyi's determination to bring democracy and human rights to her country won her international renown, including the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize. She was so popular that in 2011 famous French director Luc Besson made a biopic of her life starring Malaysian actor Michelle Yeoh. Suu Kyi was often called the world's most famous political prisoner. Decades of campaigning finally paid off, and in 2012 Suu Kyi was allowed to run in free elections. She won a seat in parliament as Myanmar began its transition away from military government. After general elections in 2015, she became the country's de facto civilian leader, although officially she held the post of foreign minister and state counselor — a role akin to prime minister. Rohingya, a mostly Muslim ethnic group, had their citizenship revoked by Myanmar's Buddhist-majority government in 1982. Long persecuted, their plight intensified in 2016 when Myanmar's military began what it called "clearance" of illegal immigrants. Groups such as Human Rights Watch have described it as "ethnic cleansing." Thousands have died, and hundreds of thousands have fled their homes. When she became state counselor in 2016, Suu Kyi set up a commission to investigate claims of atrocities against the Rohingya in Rakhine state. Suu Kyi accused the Rohingya of spreading "a huge iceberg of misinformation," and said she was concerned by the "terrorist threat" posed by extremists. Her stance sparked protests in Muslim-majority countries around the world. Due to her handling of the Rohingya crisis, Suu Kyi was stripped of various honors and lost much of her international support. The Nobel committee was forced to issue a statement saying that her peace prize could not be revoked. Fellow Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai called on Suu Kyi to "stop the violence." Suu Kyi said that outsiders could not grasp the complexities of the situation. In 2020, Myanmar's ruling National League for Democracy party won the November 8 general election, with enough seats to form the next government. However, the military's proxy party, the Union Solidarity and Development party, claimed fraud and demanded a new election supervised by the military. With that came comments alluding to a possible coup. Supporters of the party also marched in protest. Myanmar's civilian leader, along with several of her political allies, were detained in an early morning raid on February 1, 2021 led by the military. The move came amid escalating tensions between the civilian government and army, which had been in control for decades.The junta claimed electoral fraud, announced a yearlong state of emergency and named a former general as acting president. Author: Elizabeth Schumacher jf/nm (AP, AFP, Reuters)  