Millions of people worldwide suffer from hearing annoying noises in their ears, which can take the form of high-pitched whistling, chirping, hissing, ringing or buzzing. This phenomenon, known as tinnitus, can be a great strain for those affected, particularly when it has troubled them for a long time, and can result in sleep disorders or even depression. Such ringing in the ears is brought about by some kind of disturbance of the ear or of the hearing system. But surprisingly enough, researchers have so far failed to find any clear explanation for the phenomenon. In humans, sound waves are caught by the cochlea, which contains the sensory organ of hearing. Here, sensory cells convert the physical stimuli in such a way that the auditory nerve can pick them up in the form of electrical signals and transmit them to the auditory center in the brain. In the brain, this information is then appropriately sorted, and the sound impressions are decoded. The brain can immediately filter out disturbing stimuli. The psyche also plays an important role in this process: It also determines whether or how we hear or perceive something. If this highly complex interaction is disturbed, what is heard is passed on incorrectly. The nerve cells do not react, or overreact, to compensate for the resulting hearing loss. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hWwi The usual treatment for tinnitus, such as that which occurs after an acute hearing loss, is the high-dose administration of cortisone. The steroid drug is usually given in tablet form, as an injection or as an infusion. The cortisone is intended to reach the middle ear via the stomach or the bloodstream and stimulate blood flow. However, it is not known how exactly cortisone affects tinnitus. Both circulatory and immunological effects have been put forward as possible explanations, as well as cortisone's anti-inflammatory and decongestant qualities. This is why researchers have been testing for years whether the introduction of cortisone by an injection through the eardrum into the middle ear could be more effective than internal administration by means of infusions or tablets. Alternatively, doctors have used cognitive behavioral therapy approaches to train sufferers to consciously ignore the agonizing tinnitus sound. A type of music therapy has also been used in which tinnitus sufferers try to sing or hum the annoying tinnitus sound themselves. The unusual therapy approach of neurologist Berthold Langguth, head of the Regensburg Tinnitus Center,  is along similar lines: With the help of sounds and electrical impulses,  he gently reprograms the brain and can thus weaken the annoying ear noises. For years, researchers have also been trying to use electrical stimulation of the tongue to supply the hearing center of the brain with additional information and thus regulate the development of tinnitus in the brain. Hearing impairment causes defective nerve cells to become more sensitive and active. "When the auditory system no longer perceives certain frequencies, it compensates by reacting more strongly in the range of these frequencies," Langguth explains. In other words, the brain tries to compensate for the missing information from the ear and creates the agonizing noises of tinnitus instead. This is the starting point for Langguth's approach. Since there are many different forms of tinnitus, the tinnitus tone is determined individually for each patient. The patient then hears tones and noises from this frequency range via headphones, while the neurons, or nerve cells, of the tip of his or her tongue are stimulated with small electrical impulses. This is because, amazingly enough, some nerve pathways lead from the tongue directly to the center in the brain where auditory perception takes place. The electrostimulation device is reminiscent of a cell phone to which are attached headphones and a kind of toothbrush with contacts that patients place on their tongue. The electrical stimulation gives the overactive tinnitus neurons signals to "settle down." That may sound a bit strange, but it seems to work: In a study of 326 subjects, the troublesome ringing in the ears diminished in about 80% of the participants, who had stimulated their hearing themselves for an hour a day for 12 weeks. The noises disappeared, and the subjects were able to sleep and concentrate better again. And in three-quarters of the subjects, these positive effects were still there a year after the end of therapy. For the clinical study,  the subjects were divided into three groups, each of which was stimulated with different tones. However, there was no placebo group in the trial. The best results were in the group in which the frequency range was close to the tinnitus tone. It is true that a few patients experienced temporary irritation of the oral mucosa. But according to Professor Langguth, the test subjects surprisingly did not find the electrical stimulation of the sensitive tip of the tongue too unpleasant: "I was amazed at how well the patients tolerated it. Of course, it is important that the stimulation does not become too intense," says the neurologist. Devices for correspondingly gentle, wireless tongue stimulation are now to be developed for this unusual therapeutic approach. Rabbits direct their ears toward sounds. Ear movement helps them to escape predators, but a rabbit’s ears also tell a lot about behavior. Erect ears mean they’re listening attentively. When one ear is up and one is down, the rabbit is listening passively. Ears resting against the back indicate a relaxed state of mind if ears are touching, but separated ears in the same position are a sign of fear. Dogs can hear higher frequencies than humans. That’s why your dog reacts even when nothing seems to be there. Dogs can also differentiate their owner’s footsteps from those of strangers. Cat ears are even more sensitive! Dogs have 18 ear muscles, while cats have 30 and can even rotate them 180 degrees. So, don’t try to sneak up on your cat — it’s pointless. Bats rely on echolocation to navigate during night flights. They send out ultrasonic sound waves from their mouths then the echo bounces back to the bat. Bats use this strategy to determine the size and location of objects and to find food in total darkness. Additionally, bats have 20 muscles to change the shape and direction of their ears to fine-tune their echo reception. In the everlasting predator-prey race, the greater wax moths have managed to escape bat predation by evolving ultrasound sensitive ears. They have the highest frequency sensitivity recorded in the animal world and hear 150 times better than humans. They can even hear frequencies 100 hertz higher than bats. When beetles, crickets, and moths hear ultrasonic waves of their predators they run away or fly in zigzagging or looping patterns. Some crickets and beetles produce clicking sounds to scare the predators away. Underwater sonar is based on similar echolocation techniques bats and whales use to navigate at night or in the deep dark ocean. Like submarines, whales can navigate and find food using sound waves and sound reflections. Whistles and clicks produced by whales are thought to provide them with a 3D view of the world and are also important in communication between individuals. Dolphins have ears; however, they navigate through the ocean by a mechanism similar to echolocation in bats. They produce sonic pulses from their foreheads that are reflected by the surroundings and then received by sound receptors in their jaws and teeth. Yes, that’s right! Hearing doesn’t necessarily have to be through ears, it can simply refer to information reception. With their enormous ears, they can hear the sound of the clouds gathering prior to rain. Elephants can pick up infrasound waves — a low frequency humans can’t hear. They can also hear with their feet using nerve endings that detect ground vibrations. Some animals have receptors on parts of their bodies which convey vibrations and sound waves to the nervous system. Not only do owls have excellent night vision and the ability to rotate their heads 360 degrees, but they also have remarkable hearing. Owls have asymmetrical ears, so when they fly, one ear picks up sounds from above while the other listens to sounds from below. This system working tandem with their night vision means their prey will most definitely get caught. Some blind individuals have learned to use echolocation to "hear" their surroundings. One way they do this is by making clicking sounds with their mouths then listening to reverberations to estimate the size of a room or the distance to a wall or a fence. Some claim to be able to describe a place relying on echolocation alone! Author: Farah Aqel  