German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the country's 16 state premiers met on Monday to discuss possible improvements to the country's vaccination program. Several federal ministers, and representatives of both the vaccine manufacturers and theEuropean Commission  are also taking part in a videoconference. Several state premiers have demanded clarity on both the quantity and timing of vaccine deliveries, following widespread confusion. Health Minister Jens Spahn tried to manage expectations ahead of the summit, telling the mass-circulation Bild newspaper that Germany cannot produce more vaccines "by a summit alone." "Vaccine production is the most challenging thing there is," he said. Additionally, in order for Germany to meet its ambitious goal of having everyone vaccinated by late summer, the country will "have to make a great effort,"  Finance Minister Olaf Scholz told Süddeutsche Zeitung. Germany's Robert Koch Institute for infectious disease control and prevention meanwhile has reported 5,608 new infections and 175 deaths in the past 24 hours. The current seven-day coronavirus incidence, which records new cases per 100,000 within the time period, is now at 91 cases. German firm BioNTech and US company Pfizer promised to deliver up to 75 million more coronavirus vaccine doses to the EU in the second quarter of 2021, the company's head Sierk Poetting wrote in a statement on Monday. BioNTech-Pfizer now plan to manufacture around 2 billion doses of the vaccine against COVID-19 by the end of the year. This is up from the planned initial 1.3 billion. Another German company,Bayer, is set to extend its current partnership with CureVac to include manufacturing of the smaller firm's mRNA vaccine against coronavirus in 2022. "Following discussions with the German government, it has become clear that current manufacturing capacities for vaccines need to be increased, particularly for potential variants of the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) virus," Stefan Oelrich, president of Bayer's pharmaceuticals division, told reporters. The company wants to produce 160 million doses in the first 12 months. Ahead of the meeting, Health Minister Jens Spahn said Germans should limit their expectations for the time being. The realistic assessment, he said, was that there would be a shortage of vaccines for several more weeks. Real progress was more likely in the second quarter of the year, he said. Spahn added that procurement, production and scheduling, were all areas where "things can be done even better." Meanwhile, North Rhine-Westphalia's state premier Armin Laschet had a similar assessment and called for stocktaking on improvements in corona vaccination in Germany to be "realistic." Laschet, recently elected leader of Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats (CDU), cautioned against the idea that vaccine production could be ramped up in only a week. lc,rc/rt 