Security forces in Myanmar deployed extra troops and armored vehicles around the country on Monday after cutting off access to the nation's internet. The military has continuously ramped up its efforts to quell nationwide demonstrations, as protesters demanding the release of former de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi refuse to step down. Meanwhile, the detention of San Suu Kyi has been extended until Wednesday, as opposed to Monday, as previously thought, her lawyer said. Extra troops were seen in key locations of Yangon, the nation's commercial hub and biggest city, including armored personnel carriers near the central bank. Demonstrators still took to the streets on Monday despite the military presence. Suu Kyi's detention was due to expire on Monday, but her lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw, said that a judge at a court in the capital, Naypyitaw, said she was remanded until February 17. "Whether it is fair or not, you can decide yourself," Khin Maung Zaw said. A member of the lawyer's team said the judge had spoken with Suu Kyi via video chat, and she had asked if she could hire a lawyer. Suu Kyi's extended detention is likely to raise tensions between the military, which seized power in a coup on Feb. 1, and demonstrators. Hundreds of thousands of protesters have taken to the streets to denounce the coup and call for a return to the government that they elected. Suu Kyi had been expected to face a court on Monday in connection with charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios, her lawyer said. The new military junta stationed extra troops and armored vehicles around the country on Monday to deal with the ongoing protests. People continued to take to the streets anyway, as seen above where protests took place outside the central bank in Yangon. Protesters have refused to back down despite the military's deployment of armored vehicles. Those calling for the end of the military government have proven defiant in the face of the crackdown, one protester dressed as Batman showed little regard for the military vehicles. A judge in the capital Naypyitaw said on Monday that Myanmar's civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who was detained on February 1 by the military junta, would remain in detention until Wednesday. She was expected in court on Monday to face charges of illegally importing walkie-talkies. Hundreds of thousands of protesters have come out to show their anger at the military coup and to demand the release of Suu Kyi. As well as military and police presence, the junta has tried to quell the protests with internet blackouts. Police and the military employed water-cannon trucks and armored personnel carriers. Police also fired rubber bullets at protesters in the country's second-biggest city, Mandalay, leaving six injured. Protesters responded by throwing bricks. The military junta is facing growing international and domestic pressure. Despite the draconian measures, demonstrations have continued to grow in number. The international community has also called on the military to return power to the civilian government. Author: Alex Berry On Monday, thousands protested in Mandalay, the country's second-largest city, chanting and holding signs that said "Free our leader," "Who stands with justice?" and "Stop arresting people illegally at midnight. Violence later broke out in Mandalay, leaving six protesters injured after police fired rubber bullets and used slingshots on the crowd. Demonstrators retaliated with bricks. In Yangon, fewer protesters gathered than in Mandalay, due to Monday morning's internet cuts and reports of armored vehicles on the streets. Over 1,000 still gathered outside the Central Bank of Myanmar building – one of the primary protest locations. Protesters in Yangon were met with military trucks full of troops, riot police, water-cannon trucks and armored personnel carriers. Internet access was mostly restored around 9 a.m. local time, residents reported. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pLbZ They also carried signs that read "#SupportCDM" and "#SaveMyanmar." CDM refers to the civil disobedience movement under which doctors, engineers and others in Myanmar strike to push the military to release elected leaders and return the country to civilian rule. "This is a fight for our future, the future of our country," youth activist Esther Ze Naw told Reuters at a protest in Yangon. "We don't want to live under a military dictatorship. We want to establish a real federal union where all citizens, all ethnicities are treated equally." Meanwhile, police in Naypyitaw detained about 20 high-school students protesting by a road. "Remember, we don't swear at the police and don't sign anything at the police station," one student could be heard saying.   lc, rs/msh (AFP, Reuters, AP)