Woods in car accident Gulacsi shows support for LGBTQ+ community Report: 6,500 migrant workers have died since Qatar won World Cup host rights Legendary golfer Tiger Woods was hospitalized on Tuesday after being involved in a single-vehicle accident in Los Angeles, local police said in a statement. The crash occurred shortly before 7:15 a.m. local time on Tuesday, officials said. Woods was the sole occupant of the car. A local television station helicopter over the scene of the accident showed a car on its side with the front heavily damaged. It appeared that air bags had been deployed. The LA County Sheriff's Department is conducting an investigation into the accident. Details of any injuries sustained by the 15-time major winner Woods were not immediately given, although Woods' manager Mark Steinberg told monthly golf magazine Golf Digest that Woods "suffered multiple leg injuries. He is currently in surgery and we thank you for your privacy and support." RB Leipzig goalkeeper Peter Gulacsi has taken a stance against homophobia in his homeland. In a Facebook post on Tuesday, the 30-year-old Hungarian criticized the law passed at the end of last December in Hungary that saw the definition of family in its constitution amended, effectively banning same-sex couples from adopting children. "All people have the right to equality," wrote Gulacsi. "The same way every child has the right to grow up in a happy family, make that family of any gender, of any color, of any religion." Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has long come under criticism for his anti LGBTQ+ policies. According to a report published by the British daily The Guardian on Tuesday, more than 6,500 migrant workers from India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have died in Qatar over the decade since FIFA granted it the right to host the 2022 World Cup. The report cites official government figures from the five countries, which show that an average of 12 migrant workers per day have died since December 2010. It says the total death toll is thought to be much higher, as the figures do not include deaths from a number of other countries that send large numbers of workers to Qatar. Naomi Osaka crushed Jennifer Brady 6-4 6-3 to secure her second Australian Open title on Saturday and cement her standing at the top of the women's game. Osaka's one-sided win over the 22nd-seeded American in the final at the Rod Laver Arena gave the Japanese 23-year-old her fourth major crown. She is yet to lose any of her first four Grand Slam finals and joins Monica Seles and Roger Federer as the only other players to achieve that feat. "My reaction is that that's very amazing company," Osaka told reporters. "I hope that I can have one grain of how their career has unfolded. But you can only wish and you can only just keep going down your own path — but it's definitely something crazy to hear." Osaka has established herself as the queen of the hard court and will now look to improve her performances on the clay and grass, having so far failed to get beyond the third round at the French Open and Wimbledon. Russia's Daniil Medvedev has charged into the men's final at the Australian Open with an impressive 6-4 6-2 7-5 win over Stefanos Tsitsipas. The rangy Medvedev wrapped the Greek fifth seed in a blanket of pressure under the lights of Rod Laver Arena, capturing his 20th successive victory to have a shot at ending Novak Djokovic's dynasty in Sunday's decider. Newly promoted Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart announced on Friday that they had extended the contract of head coach Pellegrino Matarazzo for a further two seasons to 2024. The New Jersey native took over as head the then-second division outfit in December 2019, leading the Swabians to promotion to the Bundesliga a few months later. "We are very pleased to have extended Pellegrino Matarazzo's contract," Stuttgart CEO Thomas Hitzlsperger said in a statement. "Rino fully met our expetations from Day 1. He fully identifies with VfB and has chosen to play attractive and successful football with young and capable players."  Naomi Osaka’s incredible run of form continued as she saw off Serena Williams in straight sets to reach the Australian Open final. The Japanese will face American Jennifer Brady on a 20-match unbeaten streak and the enviable record of never losing a Grand Slam final. For Williams, it was another blow in her relentless quest to win a record-equalling 24th Slam title. Despite early pressure from the veteran 39-year-old, Osaka saw off the challenge - which was a rematch of the 2018 US Open final - in straight sets 6-3 6-4. "I was really nervous and scared in the beginning and then I sort of eased my way into it," Osaka said. "It's just always an honor to play her and I just didn't want to go out really dud. I just wanted to try my best." It was the first time Williams failed to win a semifinal at the Australian Open in 18 years. In the men's draw, Novak Djokovic defeated Russian Aslan Karazew in straight sets 6-3 6-4 6-2 to seal his place in the final. He will face either Daniil Medvedev or Stefanos Tsitsipas in a bid to win his third-straight Australian Open. Bayern Munich defender David Alaba has announced that he will leave the club at the end of the season after the two parties failed to reach an agreement on a contract extension. The Austrian international joined Bayern as an academy player in 2008 and went on to make 286 Bundesliga appearances - including 17 on loan at Hoffeheim - plus 87 Champions League appearances for the German champions. "I have decided to do something new," said Alaba. "It wasn't an easy decision because I've been here since I was 13." Now 28, the full-back, who has also excelled in midfield, insisted that money was not a reason for his decision and said that he wants to make the most of the final years of his career. "I'd like to develop myself further as a player," he said. Alaba's next destination remains unclear, although Real Madrid, Paris Saint-Germain, Manchester United and Chelsea are all said to be interested. Alexander Zverev came up short against Novak Djokovic, despite the German taking the opening set in their quarterfinal in Melbourne. Zverev won the opener on a tie break and had Djokovic rattled, leading 3-0 in the third and fourth sets. Djokovic was wound up enough that he smashed his racket, but that seemed to fire him up. The Serbian rediscoverd his touch to claim a 6-7, 6-2, 6-4, 7-6 win to reach his ninth semifinal at Melbourne Park. The eight-time Australian Open winner will face the surprise of the tournament: Aslan Karatsev, a 27-year-old from Russia who is ranked 114th and needed to go through qualifying rounds just to get into the main draw of a major for the first time. "To be honest,'' Djokovic said, "I haven't seen him play at all before the Australian Open." Formula One's Red Bull are set to join Mercedes and Ferrari in building their own engines after a deal with Honda. The Japanese firm is quitting the sport but Red Bull will administer old Honda engines from 2022, setting up a separate company to do so, and will then look to develop their own engines from 2025. "We now begin the work of bringing the power unit division in-house and integrating the new facilities and personnel into our Technology Campus," Red Bull team boss Christian Horner said in a statement. "In the meantime, we are fully focused on achieving the best possible results in what will be Honda's final season as an official power unit supplier." Formula One driver Fernando Alonso has been released from hospital after breaking his jaw in a cycling crash last week. The Spaniard, returning to the sport with the Alpine (former Renault) team this season after two years away, will be fit for the opener in Bahrain on March 28. Women's world number one Ash Barty reached the Australian Open tennis quarterfinals with a quick 6-3 6-4 win over American Shelby Rogers. Barty is bidding to become the first Australian to win the women's singles on home soil since 1978. Spain's Rafa Nadal coasted through in the men's draw, winning 6-3 6-4 6-2 over Italian 16th seed Fabio Fognini. Second seed Nadal is looking to repeat his 2009 triumph in Melbourne and may be helped by defending champion Novak Djokovic carrying an injury.