The small town of Lytton in Canada's British Columbia was destroyed Thursday in a wildfire, as much of the region is in the grips of an extreme heat wave. The town suffered 62 new fires within 24 hours. Authorities said 90% of Lytton had burned down, including the town center, with the town's 250 residents evacuated. In total, over 1,000 people were forced to flee across the province due to the fires. The town lies 260 kilometers (161 miles) northeast of the city of Vancouver.  Much of Lytton was destroyed after fires tore through the town Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tweeted that an Incident Response Group would go over the situation, and promised assistance. Defense Minister Harjit Sajjan said Canadian forces were "ready to support residents as we move forward in the next steps," in a tweet.  The fire broke out on Wednesday evening. Mayor Jan Polderman told local media that he saw white smoke on the southern edge of the town and within 15 to 20 minutes, flames had taken over the whole town. A girl cools off at a community water park in Richmond, British Columbia. Schools and COVID-19 vaccination centers were closed earlier in the week as community cooling centers opened to help residents cope with the unprecedented heat wave. Lytton, which experienced Canada's all-time record high temperature of 49.6C (121.28F) degrees this week, was consumed by a wildfire Thursday. Officials said over 90% of the town was destroyed. Scores of people are believed to have died due to the extreme heat. In the province of British Columbia alone, the chief coroner received reports of at least 486 "sudden and unexpected deaths" from June 23 to June 28. Under normal circumstances, around 165 people would die over the same period. Environment Canada warns the heat wave will not lift for days, though parts of British Columbia and Yukon could see relief sooner. Water parks have provided much-needed relief during a sweltering week. Meteorologists say the extraordinary heat was caused by a dome of high pressure over the Northwest. The situation is also aggravated by the effects of climate change, which are increasing the frequency of extreme weather events. Police in Vancouver redeployed dozens of officers and asked the public to call 911 only for emergencies because heat-related deaths had depleted front-line resources and delayed response times. "Vancouver has never experienced heat like this, and sadly dozens of people are dying because of it,'' Sgt. Steve Addison said. "Our officers are stretched thin." Prior to the start of the heat wave, the historical high in Canada was 45 Celsius (113 Fahrenheit), set in Saskatchewan in 1937. Lytton had recorded three consecutive days of record heat prior to the fire. On Tuesday, temperatures crossed 49 degrees Celsius (120 degrees Fahrenheit). Heat wave warnings have been issued for the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and parts of the Northwest Territories, and now northern Ontario.  Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3vobt Fires broke out in other parts of British Columbia as well, with lightning igniting some of them. Hot and dry weather coupled with strong winds have also exacerbated fire conditions on the US West Coast. Western Canada and the US states of Washington and Oregon have also been sweltering under record temperatures this week, with dozens of deaths being reported. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3vh6Y   tg/rs (dpa, AFP, Reuters)