The Trump Organization and its chief financial officer, Allen Weisselberg both pleaded not guilty to tax-related criminal charges as part of a sweeping indictment probe on Thursday. Weisselberg was charged in the 15-count indictment with avoiding taxes on $1.7 million (€1.44 million) of income, including on housing expenses, tuition and auto lease payments. An affiliate of the company was charged with scheming to defraud. The charges were announced one day after a grand jury indicted the organization and its executive. The indictments did not implicate former President Donald Trump in any crimes. Weisselberg, 73, wore handcuffs as he was led to the courtroom. He was seen entering a Manhattan court building housing the district attorney's office with his lawyer early Thursday morning, according to The New York Times. The Trump Organization is an unlisted family holding company that owns golf clubs, hotels and luxury properties. The Trump Organization released a statement to US media denouncing the charges as "a scorched earth attempt to harm the former president." "This is not justice. This is politics," said a spokesperson for the company. The case is will investigate whether Weisselberg and other officials received any benefits such as rent-free apartments and leased cars without reporting them properly on their tax returns. This would be the first criminal case to arise from the two-year probe led by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. in collaboration with New York state Attorney General Letitia James. Court filings, public records and subpoenaed documents have shown that Weisselberg and his son Barry have received perks and gifts potentially worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, including many benefits related to real estate. Trump, who was traveling to the US-Mexican border in Texas, did not respond to questions raised by reporters. He criticized President Joe Biden's immigration policy during the visit. On Monday, Trump called prosecutors biased in a statement, and said his company's actions were "in no way a crime." wd, tg/sms (AP, Reuters) 