Mexico's Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that a state law limiting abortions to the first three months of pregnancy for rape victims is unconstitutional. Judges were asked to decide whether a doctor in the southern state of Chiapas could deny an underage rape victim with cerebral palsy a termination. The director of a public hospital in the city of Tapachula refused to so, saying too much time had passed and citing the local legislation. But the country's top court said enforcing such a time limit breached the woman's human rights. "The refusal of the health authority resulted in a series of serious violations of the human rights of the victim and her mother," according to the ruling. It revokes an earlier decision by a district judge in the state of Chiapas. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fxsH Judges said the law showed "total disregard for human dignity and the free development of the personality of pregnant women, whose pregnancy is not the result of a free and consensual decision." The court's decision could spark a series of other legal challenges by women living in other Mexican states. Catholic groups in Mexico have long campaigned against abortion All but two of Mexico's 32 states allow abortion in rape cases, but some impose time limits of 12 weeks or 90 days. Only Mexico City and two other states allow for legal terminations in situations other than rape. Hidalgo, central Mexico, became the third state in the Latin American country to do so on Tuesday. Hundreds of protesters called for gender equality as they marched to the historic Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, local media reported. A study showed that, in recent months, women held proportionally less management positions in German companies than men. More women have faced challenges to advance their careers while they take care of their children in lockdown. Ukraine's capital Kyiv was rocked by protests as thousands of women marched to highlight domestic violence. With banners saying "the pandemic has a woman's face," protesters aimed to draw attention to how women suffered during the COVID crisis. Cases of domestic violence have risen worldwide during the coronavirus pandemic, as isolation and confinement prompted sexual and gender-based violence. Hundreds of women rallied in the capital Manila protesting President Rodrigo Duterte for alleged abuses against women. The president has angered women's rights groups since he took office in 2016 as he has repeatedly made jokes about rape. Protesters smashed an effigy of Duterte with sledgehammers. Rallies took to the streets in Istanbul to protest violence against women. A day before the protests, Turkish authorities announced the arrest of a man who appeared to beat his wife on the streets in a widely circulated video on social media. Turkey has one of the highest femicide rates in the world. Last year, at least 300 women were murdered, according to a rights group. Pakistani women rallied around the country's major cities in defiance of Islamist hardliners, who had attacked the march with stones last year. Dancing, chanting and marching, protesters demanded reform in the healthcare system, highlighting how the pandemic struck women the most. Women around the world suffered to access reproductive and sexual healthcare during the coronavirus crisis. Women placed flowers and wrote the names of victims of violence on a fence set at the presidential palace in Mexico City. In the last five years, femicide rates rose to almost 130% in Mexico. Author: Farah Bahgat In Mexico City, where abortion has been legal since 2007, 231,191 abortions were performed last year.  