India's film industry – the world's largest in terms of the number of films produced – has not been immune to the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. The industry has been on the decline since India's first COVID-19 lockdown in March last year. Major film productions have been shelved or indefinitely postponed, while thousands of cinemas have shutdown, prompting job losses nationwide. "This is an industry which is already dealing with losses going into millions, and it is going to be worse than 2020 if losses keep on mounting," a senior trade analyst told DW. Around 1,600-1,800 films are typically produced in India every year in various languages. About 200-250 of them are Hindi films – popularly known as Bollywood films. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3k0W3 Bollywood's yearly box office earnings stands at a little over 30 billion Indian rupees ($402 million, €340 million). But COVID-related shutdowns have taken a heavy toll on cinemas. "It is a worrying situation. Many big releases have been hit, and this has disrupted the entire production chain. Losses have been incurred and worryingly nobody has an answer when the situation will normalize," Taran Adarsh, another trade analyst, told DW. The film industry in south India – or "Tollywood" – is staring at its worst crisis with losses pegged at 9 billion rupees, as a slew of films, including possible blockbusters, still lie unreleased. Unlike films in Kannada, Tamil and Telugu languages, where mega production houses and corporate-political backing are the norm, a majority of films produced in Kerala, southern India, are from small production houses. "The film industry is undergoing major losses. I had to release my movie, Bhoomi, through the digital platform this year. At the end of the day, we need audiences back and theaters to open for a vibrant industry that we always knew," Sujatha Vijayakumar, a Tamil film producer, told DW. Across the country, theaters and film multiplexes lie deserted. The 34-year-old, best known for starring as sparkly vampire Edward Cullen in Twilight, tested positive for COVID-19, pausing the production of his film The Batman just three days after it resumed. Pattinson, who also played Cedric Diggory in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, took on his latest role after Ben Affleck stepped down last year. The wrestler-turned-movie star has become one of the latest A-List celebrities to contract COVID-19. In a video on Instagram, Johnson revealed that he, his wife and two young daughters have tested positive — adding that he'd had "a rough go" with symptoms. He also urged for people to stop "politicizing" the pandemic and to "wear your mask." The Brazilian football icon is one of three Paris Saint-Germain players to contract the virus, news agency AFP reported September 2. The outbreak at the club is believed to be linked to a holiday trip the team took to the Spanish island of Ibiza. Neymar later posted a picture on Instagram with his son, who also reportedly tested positive, reading: "Thank you for your messages. We're all fine!" Running legend Usain Bolt tested positive just days after holding a party to celebrate his 34th birthday in late August. The record-holder for the 100-meter and 200-meter sprints said he'd gone into quarantine but that he wasn't exhibiting symptoms. Videos of Bolt's outdoor birthday party showed guests not wearing masks during the celebration. The Spanish actor had an unwelcome surprise for his 60th birthday in mid-August after testing positive for the coronavirus. Banderas said he spent his birthday in isolation and that he was "more tired than usual" but "hoping to recover as soon as possible." The Bollywood movie legend revealed in July that he'd tested positive for the virus and spent three weeks in the hospital before being discharged in early August. His son Abhishek, actress daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai and granddaughter Aaradhya also contracted the virus. Bachchan's son remains in hospital. Actor Tom Hanks and his wife, the actor and singer Rita Wilson, were among the first celebrities to announce they'd contracted the virus. The couple tested positive for the virus in mid-March while in Australia. After recovering and returning to the United States, Hanks has advocated for people to do their part to slow the spread of the disease. According to an Ernst and Young 2020 report, India had around 9,527 screens out of which there were around 6,327 single-screens and 3,200 multiplexes. Last year, around 1,000 screens shut down permanently. "With thousands of screens countrywide forced to close down, and many employees, not just of cinemas, but even their supply chains and other stakeholders facing personal hardship. It is a tough situation," Gautam Dutta, CEO of PVR Cinemas, told DW. "It is estimated that Indian cinema exhibition industry had lost theatrical revenues of close to 120 billion rupees in 2020-21. There has also been additional impact on revenues in terms of lost concession sales, and screen advertising sales," Dutta added. According to the Federation of Western India Cine Employees, over 250,000 workers, including entertainers, makeup artists, set designers, carpenters and backstage dancers who have also been affected by the pandemic. Depending on the scale of a film, sets can have anywhere between 300-500 people, including crew, main cast, junior artistes and stuntmen. "Obviously, smaller artists and workers in the industry have been impacted. Shoots are happening now but there is considerable uncertainty in peoples’ minds about the return of blockbusters and if they will throng cinema halls," film critic Namrata Joshi told DW. With cinema halls still near-empty due to the lockdown in many parts of the country, several producers are opting to release their films on streaming platforms without waiting for a theatrical release. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mheS As cinema enthusiasts are homebound, Over-the-top (OTT) media service platforms have turned into the "new big screen." There are over 45 OTT services in India. Industry trends indicate that with access to better networks, digital connectivity and smartphones, OTT platforms in India have been increasingly attracting subscribers on a daily basis. Radhe, the first budget Bollywood film starring Salman Khan, was deferred multiple times for a theater release but then shown on OTT platforms in May. Several other blockbusters are also expected to follow suit in the coming months. "Major production houses are turning to OTT platforms for their new releases. We have to take the giant leap and adapt. Directors, producers and even actors realize that this platform is going to be increasingly relevant," film producer Sai Krishna told DW. India's streaming market is expected to grow 31% from 2019 to 2024, with revenues reaching $2.7 billion, according to consultancy firm Pricewaterhouse Coopers. Cinema revenues are estimated to contract 2.6% in the same period. Low cost and efficient mobile recharge packages along with good internet connectivity have permitted both rural and urban populations to consume video content at a rapid rate. "What I have noticed also is there is a distinct change in viewing preferences in this crisis, especially in rural India, where people are seeing movies on their phones. People have turned adversity into advantage," actor Shabana Azmi told DW. Yet, many Indians still yearn for the cinematic experience, and are waiting for the reopening of theater halls. Commuters queuing up outside the entrance of a metro station in central Delhi. Just weeks ago, India was battling a devastating wave of the coronavirus that brought the country's health care infrastructure to its knees. Supplies of medical oxygen ran short and crematoriums were overrun. As numbers begin to fall, Indians are back on the streets of their capital city. Vendors take a break amid a busy marketplace in Delhi. The fall in coronavirus case numbers comes at a time when temperatures are soaring in the national capital. Even as temperatures touch a peak of 43 degrees Celsius (109.4 degrees Fahrenheit), shoppers can be seen thronging local markets, hunting for good deals under the sweltering sun. Large groups of people flock to a crowded flea market in Delhi's neighboring city of Gurgaon, a part of the national capital region. Despite attempts from local authorities to ensure that visitors adhere to COVID-related rules, social distancing remains a distant dream in markets like these. In some cases, mask-wearing shoppers were seen pulling down their masks to bargain for the best price. A couple walks through the narrow lanes of Khan Market in central Delhi. As cafes, restaurants and bars open for business after weeks of lockdown, many residents are stepping out for a meal or a drink as they seek a change from their COVID lifestyle. Tired of working from home, many young professionals can be seen perched on stools at local coffee shops, sipping on their iced lattes. As the sun blazes outdoors, malls have become the favored shopping destination for locals. However, as states lift their coronavirus lockdowns in phases, experts have warned that another wave of the virus, in part fuelled by the emergence of the "delta plus" variant, may not be far behind. A large number of cars parked at Connaught Place in New Delhi. As restrictions are lifted and many offices resume work, traffic is back to its regular levels in the national capital region, even during non-peak hours. The short-lived ease of commuting within the city, which is known for its traffic congestion, has come to a quick end. A woman shops for ceramic bowls and platters as her dog looks on, in Banjara market, Gurgaon. Over a year after India imposed its first coronavirus-induced lockdown, COVID fatigue has set in. Authorities are finding it increasingly difficult to keep people from stepping out — especially in the cooler evenings — after weeks of staying cooped up inside their homes. While the Indian government was caught off-guard by the last surge, preparations are underway to prevent such a situation from repeating itself. Local administrations and hospitals are looking to bolster the country's health care system. But as masks hang below the chin and social distancing remains a faraway dream, experts say that India could see another surge in the next six to eight weeks. Author: Seerat Chabba (New Delhi)  