The 74th Cannes Film Festival jury led by US director Spike Lee (Do the Right Thing) has awarded the Palme d'Or for best film to Titane, a high-octane horror thriller by French filmmaker Julia Ducournau. "I know my film is not perfect," said the director when accepting the award. "But I think no film is perfect in the eyes of the person who made it. You could even say mine is monstrous." Screen Daily called Titane "a deranged cocktail of outrage, excess, conceptual ferocity and sheer silliness," while the BBC dubbed it "the most shocking film of 2021" and "a nightmarish yet mischievously comic barrage of sex, violence, lurid lighting and pounding music." The film was arguably a sleeper for the top prize, having made a mysterious entry into the competition with a synopsis that read: "After a series of unexplained crimes, a father finds the son who disappeared 10 years earlier. Titane, the French for titanium, is a highly heat- and corrosion-resistant metal that forms rock-solid bonds." The win for Titane quickly sent shock waves down Cannes' Croisette, partly since jury head Spike Lee — the first Black president —accidentally leaked the Palme d'Or winner while announcing the best actor gong (which went to Caleb Landry Jones for Australian film, Nitram). "It's the only film I've see where a Cadillac impregnated a women," said Lee of the winner after it was announced. "It was craziness and genius together." The jury prize was won by Thai director Apichatpong Weerasethakul for Memoria, which was his English-language debut and stars Tilda Swinton as an orchidologist who heads into the Colombian jungle to discover the source of a sound that only she can hear. The Thai auteur was the winner of the Palme d'Or in 2010 with Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives. Also winning the jury prize was Israeli director Nadav Lapid for Ha'Berech, an autobiographical take on directing and censorship in Israel. Before his faux pas, Lee promised a democratic decision would be reached with the other eight jury members, which included US actor Maggie Gyllenhaal and French-Senegalese director Mati Diop. "I promised the guys on the jury that I won't be a dictator, that I'll be democratic," Lee told reporters. "But only up to a point." Spike Lee, jury president of the 74th Cannes Film Festival, and jury members (from left) Jessica Hausner, Melanie Laurent, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Mylene Farmer and Tahar Rahim The jury awarded seven "Palms" across a truly global selection of 24 competition entries. The award for best screenplay was won by Japan's Ryusuke Hamaguchi and Takamasa Oe for Drive My Car, a tale —inspired by a Haruki Murakami short story — of an actor and theater director grieving over his wife's death who must stage the Anton Chekhov play, Uncle Vanya, in Hiroshima. French director Leos Carax, best known for 1991's Les Amants du Pont-Neuf starring Juliette Binoche, was awarded the best director gong for the drama, Annette. The film opened the festival and stars Adam Driver as a stand-up comedian and Marion Cotillard as his world-famous soprano wife whose newborn child has a mysterious gift that upends their lives. Australian film Nitram, which took the best actor award, premiered at the Cannes Film Festival and portrays the events leading up to the 1996 Port Arthur mass shooting in Tasmania. Renowned for his long-standing association with French actor Denis Lavant, director Leos Carax picked another star with a magnetic presence for his new film: In "Annette," which opens the festival, Adam Driver portrays a provocative stand-up comedian, while Marion Cotillard is a world-famous soprano. The couple's lives are upended with the birth of their child, who has a mysterious gift. Remaining true to his twee style, Wes Anderson once again put together in his new film an all-star ensemble cast, including Benicio del Toro, Adrien Brody, Tilda Swinton, Lea Seydoux, Frances McDormand and Timothee Chalamet. And longtime collaborator Bill Murray is among them too, as the editor of "The French Dispatch," a fictional newspaper inspired by the filmmaker's love of "The New Yorker." Cannes this year is in a way the Lea Seydoux film festival, as the Palme d'Or-winning French star is featured in four of the event's films, three of them in the competition. Beyond Wes Anderson's, the Bond girl also leads in "The Story of My Wife," by Hungarian filmmaker Ildiko Enyedi, and in Bruno Dumont's "France," in which she plays a war reporter whose life changes following a car accident. Another film festival mainstay, British actor Tilda Swinton (shown here accepting an honorary Golden Lion in Venice in 2020) not only appears in Wes Anderson's movie, but also stars in "Memoria," Apichatpong Weerasethakul's English-language debut. The Thai independent filmmaker was the winner of the Palme d'Or in 2010 with "Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives." With "Flag Day," Sean Penn is in the competition with a father-daughter coming-of-age drama in which he stars alongside his daughter, Dylan Penn. The Hollywood actor is a Cannes veteran, having brought his films to the festival since his directorial debut, "The Indian Runner" (1991). He also served as jury president in 2008. After working in Spanish, Iranian director Asghar Farhadi filmed his latest feature in Farsi, his home country, where he also previously directed "A Separation" (2011), winner of Berlin's Golden Bear, and "The Salesman" (2016). Both works went on to win an Oscar for best foreign-language film. "A Hero" stars popular Iranian actor Amir Jadidi. Spending time on the island where Swedish director Ingmar Bergman lived and worked sounds like an inspiring retreat location for a couple of filmmakers (Vicky Krieps and Tim Roth). But after a while, the couple's personal problems take over, as fiction starts interfering with reality. French director Mia Hansen-Love is one of the only four women among the 24 films in Cannes' 2021 competition. French director Francois Ozon's latest competition entry is an adaptation of Emmanuele Bernheim's autobiographical novel, "Everything Went Fine," which tells the story of an elderly man who asks his daughter to help him end his life. Sophie Marceau, Andre Dussollier, Geraldine Pailhas, Charlotte Rampling and Hanna Schygulla make up the drama's all-star cast. Renowned for his provocative films, Dutch director Paul Verhoeven explores in "Benedetta" the story of a lesbian nun in an Italian convent during the 15th century, as plague ravages the city. Like various other competition entries, the movie was expected to be part of last year's lineup, but the production decided to wait for a year when the festival was canceled due to the pandemic. After winning Berlin's Golden Bear in 2019 with "Synonyms," Israeli director Nadav Lapid has progressed to the Cannes competition with "Ahed’s Knee." Like his previous work, the film also explores an intimate story of a national identity crisis, this time through the lens of a young filmmaker. Sentenced in June 2020 to a three-year suspended prison sentence in a verdict condemned by human rights groups, Russian dissident filmmaker Kirill Serebrennikov will not be allowed to travel to Cannes with his film. "Petrov's Flu" tells the hallucinatory tale of a family trying to survive a flu pandemic — but it was conceived before the COVID-19 outbreak, while the director was under house arrest. Author: Elizabeth Grenier The 74th Cannes Film Festival awards ceremony kicked off in blazing sunshine as film stars paraded down the red carpet into the Palais. Only a year before, the Palais was empty as the festival was canceled due to the pandemic. The last winner of the Palme d'Or in 2019 was South Korea's Bong Joon-ho for Parasite, which went on to win best film at the Oscars. But despite the pandemic, Cannes' legendary glitz and glamour was on full show with icons like Sharon Stone of Basic Instinct fame, Rosamund Pike of I Care A Lot, and Tilda Swinton, who starred in Memoria and also in Wes Anderson competition entry, The French Dispatch all in attendance. In the early months of the pandemic, the Palais des Festivals, the main location of the film festival, had been filled with hospital beds; earlier this year, it served as a mass-vaccination center, the "Vaccinodrome." Despite postponing the event from May till July, the organizers were determined that the show go on. "Festivalgoers have been in France for 10 days to do the quarantine, journalists have taken their precautions," said film festival director Thierry Fremaux at the start of the festival. "It's all very moving. The cinema world is coming back together." Indeed, the red carpet has seen an abundance of hugs, kisses and mask-free close contact, a fact that has drawn some criticism. Spike Lee, the president of Cannes' 2021 jury, is such an iconic director that the film festival included his depiction on the event's official poster. The festival organizers said they dedicated it to Lee "for that curious look he is going to put on the work of his fellow filmmakers." Nicknamed "Spike" as a child, Shelton Jackson Lee was born in Atlanta, Georgia in 1957. His mother was a teacher of arts and Black literature and his father was a jazz musician and composer. The family moved to Brooklyn, New York, when Spike was a young child, and the city would play a central role in many of his films, including in his first student film, "Last Hustle in Brooklyn" (1979). Spike Lee starred in his own game-changing work, "Do the Right Thing," as pizza delivery man Mookie. The 1989 film about the rise of racial tensions remains relevant three decades after its release; it climaxes with a white policeman killing the character Radio Raheem in a chokehold — reflecting ongoing police violence affecting African Americans, protested by the Black Lives Matter movement. The director, who often acts in his own films, gave many aspiring young African-American actors the chance to build a film career. Denzel Washington, seen above with Lee in the 1990 drama film "Mo' Better Blues," went on to become a top Hollywood star. "Jungle Fever" in 1991 also starred actors little known back then, but who are well established today: Wesley Snipes and Halle Berry, the latter with whom Lee had a relationship at the time. The film is about sexual attraction and an interracial relationship. A year later, Lee's most costly film at the time was released. "Malcolm X" was a summary of everything the director felt was important. Denzel Washington plays the title role in the biopic about the life of the African-American activist, from his troubled childhood and conversion to Islam to his assassination in 1965. A school teacher, a jazz musician and a bunch of kids — the 1994 film "Crooklyn" is about a family in New York in the 1970s, and clearly has numerous autobiographical elements. The memory of growing up in Brooklyn makes for a humorous and vibrant film. The 1995 film "Clockers" takes on issues that have always moved Spike Lee: life and survival in neighborhoods riddled with drugs and crime and rocked by ethnic strife. It starred Harvey Keitel, Mekhi Phifer and John Torturro. Just a year later, the film "Girl 6" tells the story of an aspiring actress who makes a living working for a telephone sex hotline. Short cameo appearances by Quentin Tarantino, Madonna and Naomi Campbell underline Lee's popularity. Lee focused on another topic of choice in the 1999 film "Summer of Sam," namely the crime scene in New York and conflicts between different gangs. The film, starring Adrien Brody and John Leguizamo, looks at the effect a real 1977 serial murder case had on a fictional group of people in the Bronx. In "25th Hour," Edward Norton plays a drug dealer who has 24 hours before he goes to jail for seven years — a melancholy look at the transience of life and musings about what is really important. Based on David Benioff's novel, the film happened to be shot shortly before the 9/11 attacks, and was reworked afterward, turning it into a cult tribute to New York City — and one of Lee's best films. The 2006 thriller "Inside Man" is proof that Spike Lee is also a master of commercial film. The movie about a bank robbery is entertaining, but also addresses issues close to the director's heart. After "Inside Man," Spike Lee turned to documentaries, advertising films and music videos. Released in 2016, "Off the Wall" is the story of Michael Jackson's early years, before he rose to international stardom. "Chi-Raq" is a musical drama about gang crime and racism, with women leading a sex strike to get their husbands to stop gang violence in Chicago. The director based his story on the classic drama "Lysistrata" by ancient Greek playwright Aristophanes. It celebrated its premiere at the Berlin Film Festival in 2016. In "BlacKkKlansman," two police agents, one Jewish and one Black, penetrate the Klu Klux Klan. Spike Lee's 2018 satire is based on a true story from the 1970s — but also references current racial tensions in the US. It won the Grand Prix at the 2018 Cannes Film Festival, as well as the Oscar for best adapted screenplay, making it Lee's first competitive Academy Award after an honorary one in 2015. Four African American veterans return to Vietnam years after the war, searching for the remains of their squad leader. Spike Lee's "Da 5 Bloods" was released on Netflix in June 2020, as massive protests against police brutality and racism in the US were unfolding. He also released at the time a short film, "3 Brothers," directly commenting on how history keeps repeating itself. The director is also renowned for his strong sense of fashion. He's shown here at the 2019 Oscars, wearing two knuckle rings that belong to film history: Emblazoned with the words "hate" and "love," the rings were worn by Radio Raheem in Lee's "Do the Right Thing." Raheem's speech about love and hate in the film was also a tribute to the influential thriller "The Night of the Hunter" (1955). Author: Elizabeth Grenier, Jochen Kürten  