Belgian officials warned against all travel to the country's flood-ravaged regions as one of the country's leading newspapers reported that the death toll had risen to 23 nationwide. Le Soir, a national centrist daily, cited government sources as saying more fatalities had been confirmed, while Reuters news agency stated that 20 people were still missing on Friday. "What should have been beautiful summer days suddenly turned into dark and extremely sad days for our fellow citizens," Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said. "These are exceptional circumstances that our country has not seen before." The Belgian government has set next Tuesday as a national day of mourning, toning down the country's national day festivities on Wednesday. Wallonia, Belgium's largely French-speaking region, is among one of the worst-affected areas where more than 21,000 people are currently without electricity. "Avoid traveling to the affected provinces," the Belgian crisis center, which handles major emergencies, said in a statement. "Many roads are flooded or dangerous. Do not travel to the area. You could endanger yourself and/or hinder the work of the emergency services," the statement said. The regions concerned are mainly in the south and east of Belgium. Elio di Rupo, who leads Wallonia's regional government, told the RTBF broadcaster that the death toll could rise further. "Yesterday [Thursday] evening, hundreds of people were still trapped in their homes," he said in an interview. Paramedics, police and the military have been dispatched to those areas to help with rescue and evacuation operations. Federal police said dozens of road and rail connections across the entire region remain closed. Liege, one of the most populous cities in Belgium, has been ravaged by floods The high-speed Thalys train link between Belgium and Germany, which has borne the brunt of the floods, has been suspended until further notice. "The waters are rising more and more. It’s scary," said Thierry Bourgeois, a 52-year-old resident of Liege. Local authorities had called on Thursday afternoon for those living close to the banks of the nearby Meuse River to leave their homes.  The Netherlands, Switzerland and Luxembourg have been battered by heavy rains which has caused extensive flooding. Dutch troops are helping thousands of people to evacuate their homes in the southern Dutch province of Limburg on Thursday. On Thursday, the Dutch government formally declared the province a national disaster zone as the Meuse River rose to record levels. Authorities were preparing to evacuate the city of Venlo and the smaller municipality of Meerssen. "There is a large hole in the dyke," said Meerssen emergency services in an online warning. "Immediately leave your home and get to safety," Hundreds of soldiers and firefighters fought to reinforce dykes and evacuate residents, with the Meerssen dyke being one of the first to be repaired. Rising water levels flooded the town centre of Valkenburg, by the Belgian and German border, forcing the evacuation of various nursing homes and the destruction of a bridge, It means residents who have lost homes or belongings can officially seek some compensation from the government if their insurance does not cover the losses. Dutch residents hit by flooding can seek compensation from the government Intense rain in Switzerland led the country’s weather service to warn that flooding would worsen in the coming days. Forecasters predicted that there was a high risk of flooding on Lake Biel, Lake Thun and Lake Lucerne, adding that landslides remained a possibility. jf/sms (AFP, Reuters) 