German product standards and safety testing giant TÜV Rheinland was found guilty of "negligence" on Thursday after the German firm erred when awarding safety certificates for breast implants. A French appeals court said 2,700 victims are due compensation after TÜV had certified the implants from the now-liquidated French company PIP as safe, even though the material used went on to cause health problems. The regulator was guilty of "negligence in the performance of its duties and obligations in the monitoring of the quality system," the court ruled. The decision of the appeals court, however, might be contested once more, meaning the case would go to a higher court. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qooz The scandal surfaced in 2010 after doctors noticed abnormally high rupture rates in women with implants produced by the French firm Poly Implant Prothese (PIP). Its implants were used in hundreds of thousands of women worldwide. "It's clearly a historical day for PIP breast implant victims all over the world and for women's rights,'' Olivier Aumaitre, the lawyer representing the 2,700 women who brought this latest case, told reporters. The decision of the Paris court might help many other victims, Aumaitre said, although the lawyer conceded he was "not aware of other compensation wins in other countries." TÜV was found guilty of 'negligence' in approving the implants, but it says the real blame rests with the long-insolvent producer itself TÜV lawyer Christelle Coslin told news agency The Associated Press that the German company "denies all responsibility. The missing link here is the actual liable party, which is not solvent." PIP was liquidated in 2010 and its founder, Jean-Claude Mas, was later given a four-year jail term. Mas died in 2019. Women with large breasts often suffer as a consequence, and not just because of the extra strain on the neck and spine. Many find large breasts an aesthetic problem too, and have trouble finding clothes to fit. During a reduction, sections of the breast tissue, fat and skin are removed. The nipple is also repositioned higher up. Shaving pubic hair draws extra attention to the genitals, and access to pornography has never been higher. This is causing some women to feel unhappy with their bodies. However, patients of vaginoplasty have reported pain while running and cycling. The most common procedures involve reducing the inner or outer labia, which can become visibly larger through childbirth and age. A nose job can be one of the most effective forms of facial plastic surgery. The nose is a highly characteristic feature and can really impact the impression of a face, especially if it's prominent. The procedure is highly complex and does not always produce the desired results, so think carefully before opting for one. The desire for full, sensual lips is becoming increasingly common. This usually involves injecting hyaluronic acid, although this is a temporary solution. Silicon oil is used for more permanent plumping. Or the lips are injected with micro-implants, which are coated in the body's own tissue. It's always important to have thorough consultations - and steer clear of the trout pout. Firm, well-shaped breasts are considered an expression of beauty and femininity. But over the course of time, it's normal for skin to lose its elasticity and tone, especially after pregnancy. A lift can perk droopy breasts back into shape. Significant weight loss, pregnancy and age-related decline in the skin's elasticity can cause the abdominal skin to droop and the muscles to overstretch. During an abdominoplasty, or "tummy tuck", excess skin and fat is removed. An incision is made to the lower abdomen above the public hair line. The patient should already be at their optimal weight before the operation. The classic, full facelift is often performed now using methods which only tighten certain sections of the face. A full facelift can leave the patient looking like they're wearing a mask. Skin on the throat and chin lends itself particularly well to lifts. Threads are usually placed under the skin to pull it taught, and the patient's own fat tissue is used as padding. This is one of the most common plastic surgery treatments worldwide. The procedure is not designed for weight loss, but to remove small, stubborn areas of fat which refuse to disappear through diet and exercise. The excess fat is prepared by injecting a special solution, and then removed via thin suction tubes. One of the most commonly practiced operations, the eyelid lift is a highly effective treatment for both men and women. Folds can make a person look tired and haggard. This relatively small procedure removes excess skin with two small incisions in the crease of the eyelid. The result: radiant, wide-awake eyes. In Germany too, the most popular cosmetic sugary procedure is the breast augmentation with implants. Having large breasts has long been considered a thing of beauty, and it's driving an increasing number of young women under the knife. But it's always worth weighing up the risks, even though the operation is now largely standardized. Statistics source: DGÄPC Author: Marita Brinkmann   jsi/msh (AP, dpa, Reuters)