Max Verstappen won the Monaco Grand Prix for the first time to take the Formula One championship lead fromLewis Hamilton on Sunday, while Ferrari's Charles Leclerc, who was due to start on pole, pulled out just before the race started. Verstappen's second win this season and 12th of his career moved the Red Bull driver four points ahead of Hamilton overall. The seven-time world champion finished seventh on a bad day for the usually ultra-reliable Mercedes team. His teammate Valtteri Bottas went from second place to out of the race before the midway point after his team botched a tire change. It is the first time since the German Grand Prix in 2018 that Mercedes has not led the championship. "That was masterclass and you're leading the championship. Well done, mate,'' Red Bull team principal Christian Horner radioed to Verstappen as he crossed the finish line. Verstappen sprinted over to his team and jumped into their arms after the race. "It is so special to win here. I remember when I was very little, you always want to win this one. Of course I'm very proud,'' Verstappen said. "But I'm thinking ahead to the rest of the season.'' He was then greeted by tennis star Serena Williams, who waved the checkered flag as the honorary guest at the event. Verstappen finished 8.9 seconds ahead of Carlos Sainz Jr. of Ferrari. Lando Norris scored his third career podium the same week he signed a contract extension with McLaren. "I don't know what to say, it's a dream to be on the podium here,'' the 21-year-old British driver said. "I didn't think it was going to happen. I'll cherish it.'' Monaco Grand Prix podium 1. Max Verstappen (Red Bull) 2. Carlos Sainz Jr (Ferrari) 3. Lando Norris (McLaren) Drive of the day Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin) — The German secured fifth place to collect his first points of the season, and his first since leaving Ferrari. Vettel showed great pace throughout and managed to fionish ahead of both Lewis Hamilton and Pierre Gasly. A fine result and lift-off for Vettel in the dark green of Aston Martin. Quote of the day Carlos Sainz Jr: "Maybe it doesn't taste as good as it should," given the misfortunate of his Ferrari teammate Charles Leclerc. Current drivers' standings after Monaco GP 1. Verstappen (Red Bull) — 105 points 2. Hamilton (Mercedes) — 101 3. Norris (McLaren) — 56 4. Bottas (Mercedes) — 47 5. Perez (Red Bull) — 44 After a year of driving a black car, the Silver Arrows have returned to their original color. This year's car, the "W12 E Performance" hasn't changed much and remains, like previous Mercedes, the best car on the grid. During testing though, there were problems with the car's balance. Will that opens the door for the competition? Mercedes' team is the same as last year. Briton Lewis Hamilton (right), now a seven-time world champion, is the number one driver and the clear favorite to seal yet another championship. His teammate, Valtteri Bottas (left), is a man who operates more in the background but is capable of more than one or two race wins. Will the "RB16B" set the tone in Formula One in 2021 instead of Mercedes? Red Bull's previous car was effectively the fastest by the end of last season but lacked consistency. Can Red Bull's mechanics clear out the kinks? Team boss Helmut Marko has refused to take on the favorite label, saying Mercedes have won every title since 2014. That is true, but that doesn't mean it will always be that way. During winter testing, Max Verstappen (left) was the fastest, but can he compete for a championship? He definitely has the driving ability, as well as the experience and the patience. If Mercedes stumbles, the Dutchman will be there. His new teammate, Sergio Perez (right), knows how to win races and the Mexican will be hoping to fare better than his successor Alex Albon. What can Ferrari's "SF21" deliver? This car is a developed version of the "SF1000" that raced last year and was ultimately a huge disappointment. Visually changes have been made. The Ferrari red has taken on a slightly darker shade as the team takes on the color the team won their first world title with around 80 years ago. Perhaps that will help? On the one hand Charles Leclerc (left) can laugh. Sebastian Vettel is gone and the future of Ferrari is his. But 2020 was a terrible year for Ferrari and this new season could be another one where the team is chasing rather than leading the pack. Added to that, Leclerc's new teammate is Carlos Sainz Jr. (right), a hungry and ambitious driver who will be hot on his heels. Most consider the "AMR21" as the prettiest car on the track this season. The combination of a British Racing Green and the name Aston Martin emanates classy and that James Bond flair. Under the body lies a Mercedes motor and many other parts of the car are similar to last year's champions. It's good for speed, but, like last season, it might not please others in the paddock. Sebastian Vettel (left) is probably pretty excited about this season. Rather than struggling in a Ferrari, the German has the chance to start something new in the Aston Martin team and could finally return to the front of the pack again thanks to Mercedes' motor. The team's pecking order will be intriguing, because Canadian Lance Stroll (right) is not just fast but also the son of the boss. A fast car and two golden boys would be one way of describing the McLaren Team this year. After two years at Renault, Australian Daniel Ricciardo (left) wants to challenge the leaders in the "MCL35M". Both he and Brit Lando Norris (right) will be hoping to seal good qualifying spots as well as one or two podiums. Red Bull's reserve team have the same appearance as last year, but as a result of the few rule changes compared to 2020 the Honda motor is a development to last year's car. The designer team for the "AT02" have opted for almost an entirely different aerodynamic approach rather than taking last year's Red Bull components. Alpha Tauri's driver team is also exciting this year: Frenchman Pierre Gasly won the Monza Grand Prix in 2020 as well as finishing fifth and twice sixth, sealing himself a seat for another year. F1 debutant Yuki Tsonada (left) is his new teammate. The Japanese driver impressed in teasting and in a qualifying simulation he continually delivered best times and finished second. From Renault's yellow and black, Alpine's blue emerges. The sports car brand from Renault is hoping to increase it's name through better F1 results. It nearly didn't happen either as many at Renault were in favor of ending the expensive endeavor that is running an F1 team. Corporation boss Luca de Meo refused. He hoped that the cap on spending would improve his chances. After a two-year break, Fernando Alonso (right) returns to Formula One. The Spaniard twice won the championship in 2005 and 2006. He returns a self-acclaimed more complete driver having spent his time outside the sport at long-distance driving events and the Indycar series. Esteban Ocon (left) retains his seat from last year. The Russian appearance of the "Haas VF-21" has caused a buzz. It's connected to the team's new sponsor, a Russian chemical group. Towards the end of last year, the team were in need of a new sponsor and so with a new look Haas are hoping for new fortunes. Haas are the team of two sons this years. Mick Schumacher (right), son of the legendary Michael Schumacher, has been touted as a huge talent and a potential star in the future of the sport. Russian Nikita Mazepin (left) is the son of the team's main sponsor. He too can drive, but is more likely in the seat because of his father's millions. They are called Alfa Romeo but the chassis is from Sauber and the motor is Ferrari's. The "C41" is a development on last year's car. Both drivers, 41-year-old Kimi Räikkönen (left) und Italian Antonio Giovinazzi (middle), have stayed. They are likely to be near the back of the grid again and will be hoping for the chance to get points. The name is still Williams, but no one from the Williams family is involved anymore. One of the most traditional teams in the sport was bought by a US investor last summer and team boss Claire Williams stepped down. The "FW43B" looks brighter than last year's car, and inside sits a Mercedes motor. It will likely still be a tough season for the team though. Both drivers remained. George Russell (left) showed what he is capable when he stepped in for Lewis Hamilton last year and the 23-year-old Brit won the only three points for Williams last year with a ninth-played finish in Bahrain. His teammate Nicholas Latifi never finished higher than 11th. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons, Jonathan Harding mds/emc (ap, afp)