Most African countries rely on COVAX, the World Health Organization (WHO) program built to ensure poor countries have equitable access to vaccines to combat the pandemic, for their vaccine supply. The main supplier, the Serum Institute of India (SII) produces the two-shot AstraZeneca vaccine. But increased domestic demand for doses in India, where the pandemic is currently surging out of control, has interrupted supplies being flown out for COVAX. Ahmed Ogwell, deputy director of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), called the AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute in India the "backbone." "The early part of the vaccine campaigns on the continent were really anchored on the delivery of doses from the Serum Institute in India," he told DW. COVAX has also been elbowed out of the market by rich countries striking their own deals with manufacturers, surging ahead in immunizing their citizens. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rTvH "Any country, over 20 countries, on the continent that has received the AstraZeneca vaccine is affected because they have no other way of getting the second doses," Ogwell adds. The facility urgently needs 20 million doses by the end of June to cover the supply shortage and has pleaded with wealthy countries to donate excess doses. The Serum Institute in India paused exports in March. "The urgent demand for vaccines in India is bad for the rest of the world,'' said Ravi Gupta, a professor of clinical microbiology at Cambridge University. COVAX said on Monday it has struck a deal to buy 500 million doses of Moderna's COVID-19 jabs. Ugandan epidemiologist Catherine Kyobutungi, executive director at the African Population and Health Research Center (APHRC), says the crunch comes with administering the second of the two-shot vaccines. "Health officials have had to very quickly keep on adjusting their vaccination plans. It's not clear when the second batch of vaccine is going to come," she told DW. Kenya's immunization programme started using COVAX vaccines supplied by the Serum Institute of India The delay has also stalled programs aimed at preparing wider populations to get vaccinated. "Until April, COVAX expected about 114 million doses and so far, they've only received 24 million doses. By now they should have delivered 90 million more doses. It's very, very, very frustrating right now," Kyobutungi said. Ogwell pointed out that while vaccines may be available from other sources, access to them is still difficult. "I would not call it a disaster because there are other vaccines on the market. We look at it more as a delay because vaccines are only one part of controlling this pandemic." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pa0F Ghanaian infectious disease specialist Dr. Bertha Ayi says affected countries risk "partial vaccinations." While a first shot may provide up to 50% immunity, it is not effective in helping government vaccination programs aiming for herd immunity. "Achieving partial immunity is only a drop in the bucket," she told DW. Faced with the uncertainty, doctors can stretch out the intervals between administering the vaccine from "3 weeks to 12 weeks," Ayi said. She added countries could also consider acquiring single-shot vaccines, such as the Johnson & Johnson inoculation. Asked whether countries would consider mixing vaccines, Ayi said research is still being conducted on the efficacy of mixing vaccine doses. Health experts generally agree that the mixing and matching of the vaccines granted emergency use should be safe, but no governments have officially recommended the practice. Africa CDC's Ahmed Ogwell says discussions between the organization and the Indian government are ongoing to "at least get some of" the vaccines that were promised. The African Union has also approached other vaccine manufacturers like Johnson & Johnson, which announced last month it would make up to 400 million doses of single-shot vaccine available to Africa. However, the first shipments are not expected to arrive until the third quarter of 2021. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3qHtO Kenyan political analyst Herman Manyora says that while there is exasperation in some quarters at a delay of the vaccine rollout, few in Kenya have directed anger at India, least of all the government. "It's not surprising when you see the kind of images coming out of India," he told DW. "You'd have to be very inhuman, very unreasonable to say anything against India, even if they stop supplying you." A boy reacts next to the body of his father, who died of COVID-19 in India's unprecendented surge Manyora says Kenya's difficulty in rolling out vaccines and the public's apathy toward getting inoculated suggests that the wider population has not felt directly impacted by delays. But he hopes more Kenyans will embrace the vaccines once they are available. "Many need to be pushed to take the vaccine, even those in the risk groups, health workers, teachers, security forces." Meanwhile, India's "vaccine maitri" (Hindi for vaccine friendship) initiative was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi days after India began its nationwide vaccination campaign in January. Initially, India was lauded for sharing its vaccines with poorer countries, though some criticized the move as showmanship by Modi at the expense of Indian citizens. A scientist in India familiar with vaccine development, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the feeling in India is not overwhelmingly negative towards the government for exporting vaccines first before rolling out immunization programs domestically. "Yes, millions of vaccines went out of the country, but with that amount we would have hardly managed to vaccinate many more Indians, proportionately speaking," he told DW. He did expect to see a resumption of exports in the short term, but only in "few months." At least 1.165 billion COVID-19 vaccine doses have so far been injected worldwide, according to an AFP count. Just 0.2% have been administered in the 29 lowest-income countries, home to 9% of the global population. By early 2020, the epidemic was full blown in the Chinese metropolis of Wuhan, where experts are still investigating the origins of the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Then on March 11, WHO officially described the international COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic. This street art in the city depicts two nurses dressed in full protective gear while fighting the virus. One of the first big outbreaks of the virus in Europe occurred in Italy in the northern region of Lombardy, where hospitals were filled to capacity. Naturally, the entire country was affected, with tourism essentially shutting down, including in Rome where these two rule-abiding lovers were painted. Early in the pandemic in Germany, toilet paper became a hot commodity, as people started worrying about supply shortages. And since it did run out of stock, grocery stores had to put limits on the number of packages that could be purchased. In this Berlin artwork by Eme Freethinker, Gollum from "Lord of the Rings" watches the squirrel Scrat from "Ice Age" as he steals a roll of toilet paper. Healhcare workers have been applauded as they work tirelessly through the unforgiving pandemic. It's no wonder that graffiti artists around the world have idolized them. In this painting by urban artist Applez, in Mexico City, a healthcare worker wears a mask with Superman's logo. Another picture paying homage to health care workers is this mural in Melbourne, Australia. It was painted for International Nurses Day, on May 12, 2020, which is celebrated in honor of Florence Nightingale, the English founder of modern nursing born on that date 200 years ago. A pedestrian walks past street art in Glasgow, Scotland depicting the subjects of famous artworks wearing masks. The UK imposed heavy restrictions in December after a new variant of the virus, now referred to as the "British variant," began to circulate rapidly. This work of art is on the side of a hospital in Thessaloniki, where medical and nursing staff first tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the summer of 2020. Cases are currently on the rise in both cities, which have been in strict lockdown since November. In the past year, many of us have likely pondered hygienic practices more than ever. Members of the Senegalese graffiti collective RBS CREW tag a wall of the Cheikh Anta Diop University in Dakar with a graffiti representing a man sneezing into his flexed elbow, as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 virus. An Indian resident wearing a facemask walks past a graffiti of the Buddha also wearing a similar blue surgical mask. Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who lives in northern India, was given the first dose of a coronavirus vaccine on March 6 and urged others to do the same. A mural by artist Emma Blake mimics the famous "We can do it!" American wartime poster. In the war against the virus, the battle is being fought in hospitals around the world by healthcare workers like the one depicted in this painting found in Dublin, Ireland. When former US President Donald Trump was in office, he initially downplayed the seriousness of the virus and at one point even suggested injecting disinfectant could cure it. A mural mocking the former president was painted by street artist Pure Genius in New York City. A graffiti featuring Albert Einstein wearing a mask by artist Kate Tully is displayed in Prospect Heights, Illinois. Although the pandemic hit the US hard, causing hundreds of thousands of deaths so far, it is currently leading Europe in vaccine distribution. A girl wearing a mask holding a heart painted with the colors of the Dutch flag was painted as a sign of hope for those suffering from the coronavirus and its effects. In January and February violent clashes broke out between riot police and Dutch residents angry about new coronavirus restrictions. Residents wearing masks walk past a mean-looking coronavirus which is clearly unwelcome in Nairobi, Kenya, where it was painted. Kenya is currently distributing the AstraZeneca vaccine, making it the first East African nation to receive the vaccination. Author: Sarah Hucal  