With the truce between Israel and Hamas militants taking hold on Friday, governments from around the world greeted the break in fighting and called for conflicting parties to move closer to permanent peace. An Israeli politician slammed the cease-fire as "embarrassing." US President Joe Biden said that both Palestinians and Israelis "equally deserve to live safely and securely" and pledged to continue "quiet and relentless diplomacy" towards that goal. "I believe we have a genuine opportunity to make progress and I'm committed to working toward it," he said. The spokeswoman for Russia's Foreign Ministry, Maria Zakharova, said the truce was "an important but still insufficient step." "In order to avoid a resumption of violence, we must double international and regional efforts on relaunching direct political negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians," she said. China called on the international community to "extend helping hands" to the region. "The international community should promote the resumption of peace talks between Palestine and Israel, and achieve a comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the Palestine issue on the basis of the two-state solution," said Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian. He also said China would provide monetary aid and 200,000 coronavirus vaccines for Palestinians. The EU's top diplomat Josep Borrell also urged a two-state solution as a way to achieve lasting peace. "We are appalled and regret the loss of life over these past 11 days," he said in a statement. "As the EU has consistently reiterated, the situation in the Gaza Strip has long been unsustainable." German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas thanked Egypt for mediating in the conflict and said it was "good" that there would be no more victims. "Now we have to deal with the causes, rebuild trust and find a solution to the Middle East conflict," he said on Twitter. Chancellor Angela Merkel said there was not yet a "concrete initiative" to go beyond the latest cease-fire. Answering a question from a DW correspondent in Berlin on whether she might try to spearhead a push for peace with Joe Biden before leaving office, Merkel said that such initiatives would need to be instigated by the US. She added that "Germany is of course ready" to play an important role in the peace effort. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson also welcomed the news of a cease-fire, and said that regional leaders "must now work to find a durable solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that prevents terrorism, ends the cycle of violence and delivers a sustainable and just peace." Iran hailed the truce as a "historic victory" of Palestinians over Israel. "Your resistance forced the aggressor to retreat," Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh wrote on Twitter. Separately, Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called on Muslims in other countries to pressure their governments into backing Palestinians. "Muslim states must sincerely support the Palestinian people, through military ...or financial support ... or in rebuilding Gaza's infrastructure," he said in a statement. Turkey also welcomed the cease-fire, but said that Israel should also lift "the inhumane siege" on Gaza. "In order to prevent a repeat of the pain and tears seen in Palestine, Israel must be held accountable in the international arena for the crimes it committed" said the Turkish Foreign Ministry. Looking back at the fighting which killed some 243 Palestinians in Gaza and claimed 12 lives in Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that the conflict did "maximum damage to Hamas with a minimum of casualties in Israel." Netanyahu said Israel was "attacked in an unprovoked manner by the Hamas terrorist organization." He also pledged to respond with "a new level of force" to any attacks from Hamas militants. "If Hamas thinks we will tolerate a drizzle of rockets, it is wrong," Netanyahu said. Some far-right politicians in Israel slammed the truce as a sign of weakness, with former Netanyahu ally Gideon Saar calling it "embarrassing" and Ben Gvir, head of the Jewish Power party, decrying it as "a grave surrender to terrorism and the dictates of Hamas." The truce is "not enough at all," said the Palestinian Authority's Foreign Minister Riad Al-Malki. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a UN meeting on the conflict, the diplomat said the cease-fire did not address core issues that started the violence. Al-Malki slammed the Israeli soldiers' "desecration" of the Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem, and Israel's policy of evicting Palestinians from their homes. The foreign minister said the world must now tackle the issues of Jerusalem's future and the creation of an independent Palestinian state. United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza Strip and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a 10-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza in late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." US President Donald Trump presented a peace plan that freezes Israeli settlement construction but retains Israeli control over most of the illegal settlements it has already built. The plan would double Palestinian-controlled territory but asks Palestinians to cross a red line and accept the previously constructed West Bank settlements as Israeli territory. Palestinians reject the plan. Plans to evict four families and give their homes in East Jerusalem to Jewish settlers led to escalating violence in May 2021. Hamas fired over 2,000 rockets at Israel, and Israeli military airstrikes razed buildings in the Gaza Strip. The international community, including Germany's Foreign Ministry, called for an end to the violence and both sides to return to the negotiating table. Author: Aasim Saleem Separately, Gaza political scientist Mkhaimer Abu Saada told DW that the truce is "not going to last forever." According to Abu Saada, Netanyahu and other right-wing politicians in Israel were "embarking on settlement expansion and creeping annexation in the West Bank." "I believe that without a political settlement to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and without resolving the Israeli siege and blockade against Gaza, we will be in for another cycle of violence again," he said. dj/msh (AFP, dpa)  