"You ask me about China's national interest in the Middle East conflict? I say no unrest, no escalation in the region!" said Li Guofu, a Middle East expert at the pro-government Beijing-based think tank China Institute of International Studies (CIIS). He told DW China absolutely needs a peaceful and stable world to be able to continue on its development path: "The unrest in the Middle East not only affects the normal life of the people there, it also has a very negative impact on the stability of the whole world, thus harming China's rise." To put an end to the latest flare-up in the region, Beijing has been calling for an immediate cease-fire. The People's Republic of China, which holds the presidency of the UN Security Council this month, has tried several times in recent days — together with other nations — to have a resolution passed to this effect. However, the effort has failed due to opposition from the United States. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, meanwhile, reiterated the need for dialogue within theframework of a two-state solution. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3tbos The Middle East plays an important role in China's economy and energy security, covering about half of the nation's oil and gas needs. Container ships transporting goods worth billions of euros between China and Europe have to pass through the Suez Canal. "The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is the core problem of the region," said political analyst Li Guofu. "As long as there isn't any just and long-lasting solution to this conflict, the unrest will not stop. That has negative implications for economic cooperation between China and many states in the region." Israel, meanwhile, is a key player in Beijing's global economic strategy. Since establishing formal diplomatic relations with Israel in 1992, Beijing has nurtured close economic, technological and military ties, including the purchase of early-model Israeli drones. The two nations also cooperate closely in research and technology. Furthermore, Israel plays a significant role in China's Belt and Road Initiative. Chinese investors are taking part in port expansion projects, as well as in a planned railway line between Eilat on the Red Sea and Ashdod, located to the south of Tel Aviv. The railway construction project, however, is currently on hold. According to China's Ministry of Commerce, China-Israel trade increased by nearly 19% in 2020 to about $17.5 billion (€14.3 billion), while commerce with Palestinian territories amounted to a paltry $100 million. United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza Strip and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007, US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a 10-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza in late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." US President Donald Trump presented a peace plan that freezes Israeli settlement construction but retains Israeli control over most of the illegal settlements it has already built. The plan would double Palestinian-controlled territory but asks Palestinians to cross a red line and accept the previously constructed West Bank settlements as Israeli territory. Palestinians reject the plan. Plans to evict four families and give their homes in East Jerusalem to Jewish settlers led to escalating violence in May 2021. Hamas fired over 2,000 rockets at Israel, and Israeli military airstrikes razed buildings in the Gaza Strip. The international community, including Germany's Foreign Ministry, called for an end to the violence and both sides to return to the negotiating table. Author: Aasim Saleem Bao Hsiu-Ping, a Middle East expert at Taiwan's National Chi Nan University, says that officially China has always been on the side of the Palestinians, but Beijing's support is merely limited to paying lip service. "Due to the Israeli government's active campaign in Chinese media and universities, at least part of the Chinese population is now on Israel's side," he told DW. At a recent press briefing at the Chinese Foreign Ministry, an Al-Jazeera journalist asked why Beijing had not unequivocally condemned Israel's military action in Gaza. Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian replied, "Very few people think China does not clearly criticize Israel." China condemns violence against civilians, he said, adding: "Israel, in particular, should restrain itself and stop using violence, intimidation and provocation." Political analyst Bao does not expect the Chinese to play a more active role in resolving the Middle East conflict. "China's interests there are focused on economic relations. Above all, oil supplies and shipping routes should not be disrupted. With regard to other issues, China will officially stick to its principle of non-interference," he said. Residents sought shelter as airstrikes by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) continued. One airstrike Sunday killed 33 people. Israeli authorities say the attacks target Hamas officials and that the humanitarian tragedy is the result of party leaders' mixing with the civilian population. Gaza's Health Ministry reports 181 deaths, including 52 children; 10 people have been killed in Israel. The IDF warned media such as the AP and Al Jazeera before destroying the 12-story building that housed their offices and several apartments, saying Hamas operated there. "We have called on the Israeli government to put forward the evidence," AP CEO Gary Pruitt said. "AP’s bureau has been in this building for 15 years. We have had no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building." On Thursday, Israeli fighter planes bombed the southern Gaza Strip. According to the IDF, the attacks targeted facilities that housed members of the Hamas organization. This building, destroyed on Wednesday, was one of the first to fall when the IDF's strikes on the alleged offices of militant groups or their leaders began. Residents of Gaza evacuated their homes on Tuesday, early in the conflict, which has only spiraled since. Hamas, which rules the Gaza Strip, began firing rockets into Israel earlier in the conflict. Israel's missile defense system has protected Tel Aviv and other areas — destroying projectiles in the air or diverting them so they cause as little damage as possible. But the Iron Dome missile defense system does not offer 100% protection. When the sirens go off, Israelis know that they have to find safety in shelters as quickly as possible. Even if it's 3 a.m. People who fail to make it to shelters in time try to take cover as best they can, like these people in Ashkelon, about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the Gaza Strip, on Tuesday. Even if rockets can be repelled, falling debris is also dangerous. Here, a house in Yehud, just north of Israel's Ben Gurion Airport, has been destroyed. The Israeli army has claimed that more than 1,000 rockets have been fired at Israel from Gaza since Monday. In recent days, there have been many clashes between Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli security forces in several cities, including here in Hebron, in the West Bank, which is occupied by Israel. Demonstrators threw stones and other projectiles. Security forces have used stun grenades, tear gas and rubber bullets against Arab Israelis protesting forced evictions in east Jerusalem. Meanwhile, the Israeli military has been amassing combat troops and tanks on the border with the Gaza Strip, recalling the conflicts in 2008/2009 and 2014. It doesn't look as if either side will de-escalate the tension any time soon. Some Palestinians in Gaza City have taken refuge at the UN compound for fear of further airstrikes. Author: Uta Steinwehr Beijing stresses that its position on the Middle East conflict is based on values, in contrast to that of the United States. In China's view, the US stands ready to fuel the tension, rather than taking proactive measures to forestall the conflict between Palestinians and Israel. The Foreign Ministry has also castigated the US for blocking a statement in the United Nations Security Council condemning the violence. "The US has been isolated at the Security Council unprecedentedly and is standing on the opposite side of mankind's conscience and morality," spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, according to the official English translation on the Chinese Foreign Ministry website. "China upholds international fairness and justice, while the US only cares about its own interests. The US position is dictated by its closeness with relevant sides," the statement added. Analyst Li Guofu believes that Washington's position in the current conflict could jeopardize its goal of regaining an international leadership position. He said that it is also leading to a divide between the US and the European Union. Li noted that this growing gap would be advantageous for China. "As long as Beijing continues to stand up for the basic rights of Palestinians at the international level, it will enhance China's image, while America's will be damaged." Additional reporting by Tzung-Han Tsou. This article has been translated from German. 