The US public health agency said schools across the country should continue using masks for the 2020-2021 academic year, as it will take time to vaccinate all students. In its latest guidance, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said all schools — kindergarten through grade 12 — "should implement and layer prevention strategies and should prioritize universal and correct use of masks and physical distancing." The new guidelines come soon after the agency eased mask-wearing guidance for people who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19. It no longer recommends that fully vaccinated people wear masks outdoors in crowds, and in many indoor settings. However, the CDC said that all people in school facilities and buses must wear masks at all times. A distance of six feet (1.8 meters) must be maintained between teachers and students. Earlier this week, the agency backed a plan to begin using the BioNTech-Pfizer COVID vaccine in adolescents aged 12-15. However, the World Health Organization has urged rich countries to consider donating COVID-19 vaccine shots to the COVAX distribution scheme, which supplies shots to poorer nations, before vaccinating children. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3spPQ Germany's Standing Committee on Vaccination (STIKO) has warned that all residents who have been vaccinated against the virus may need to go through the inoculation process again next year. STIKO Chairman Thomas Mertens said the virus was here to stay, and that vaccinated people should prepare themselves for the fact that they may need to get a coronavirus booster shot. Germany recorded 8,500 new cases of the virus on Sunday, taking the country's total caseload to 3,593,434, according to data from the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases. The reported death toll rose by 71 to 86,096. The UK will take a call on easing virus restrictions next month, health minister Matt Hancock said on Sunday. "We'll make a final decision for the step four, which is the biggest step on the roadmap, we'll make that final decision on the 14th of June," Hancock said. The last stage of relaxing restrictions has been scheduled for June 21, but there remain concerns over the spread of a variant first identified in India. Portugal has eased entry restrictions for visitors from EU countries that have the virus relatively under control. Bloc members with a 14-day incidence of less than 500 will now be allowed into the country. The relaxation also applies to Norway, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Britain. However, everyone over the age of 2 must present a negative PCR coronavirus test — not older than 72 hours — at entry. Greece has formally opened to visitors in a bid to help its flailing tourism industry in the leadup to summer. After months of virus-related restrictions, the country will also open up its museums, including the Acropolis, to tourists. After more than six months, Poland is set to allow outdoor dining again, but customers will only be allowed to occupy every second table. The relaxation was hailed by residents, who celebrated by visiting bars and restaurants overnight. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3tLei As Taiwan upgrades the coronavirus alert level in the capital Taipei and the surrounding areas, authorities have asked people to avoid panic buying of daily-use items like instant noodles and toilet paper. It reported 206 new domestic infections on Sunday. "After more than a year of preparation, the country's anti-pandemic materials, civilian goods and raw materials are sufficient, and the stores are also operating as usual to replenish goods," President Tsai Ing-wen said. Firefighters put out a massive fire at one of the largest hospitals in the Philippines early Sunday, forcing the evacuation of hundreds of patients. The fire at Manila's Philippine General Hospital, which is treating coronavirus patients, blazed for nearly five hours before being put out. According to hospital staff, the fire started in an operating room supply area. Several patients were moved to nearby hospitals. Australia will start reopening to visitors from the rest of the world only towards the latter half of 2022, over two years after the country closed international borders. "All the way through we will be guided by the medical advice," Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a televised address. "We will be guided by the economic advice." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3tP8O Indonesia has paused the distribution of a batch of AstraZeneca vaccines after a  22-year-old man died a day after inoculation. The government said it will run tests on the "CTMAV547" batch, consisting of 448,480 vaccine doses, that were delivered to the country last month, under the COVAX program. "After it is proven that it is sterile and does not contain toxins, the use of the vaccine will be resumed. The fastest we can get the results will be in two weeks," said Hindra Irawan Satari, the head of the vaccine monitoring committee. The island nation of Trinidad and Tobago has declared a state of emergency to contain a spike in the number of coronavirus infections and related deaths. Authorities have also imposed a nighttime curfew. Prime Minister Keith Rowley warned that the dual-island state was seeing a third wave of the virus. Medical staff who want to vaccinate the inhabitants of the mountainous regions of southeastern Turkey must be physically fit. Ensuring vaccinations in the mountain villages is particularly important, Dr. Zeynep Eralp told DW. "People often live close together, and an infection could spread quickly," she said. Also, people don't like going to hospitals, so "we have to go to them." Many elderly people can't make the journey to a vaccination center. In the Maira Valley in the western Italian Alps, close to the border with France, doctors go from house to house to give residents older than 80 their COVID-19 shot. A blessing from the roadside Madonna is a bonus. Carrying a single vial containing several doses of vaccine, this nurse is en route to Eagle, a town on the Yukon River in the US state of Alaska with fewer than 100 inhabitants. Indigenous people are prioritized in many immunization programs. Depending on where they live, the nearest health clinic can be far away. Anselmo Tunubala washes his hands before vaccinating an elderly lady. Every day, the 49-year-old is out and about in the mountains of southwestern Colombia, telling people in the local language about the importance of a vaccination. He is a member of the Misak, many of whom are skeptical about vaccination because they tend to rely on traditional medicine and the guidance of religious leaders. The men and women in the above photo walked up to four hours to get their coronavirus shot in the remote village of Nueva Colonia in central Mexico. They belong to the indigenous Wixarika people, perhaps better known under the name Huichol. For her shot, Olga Pimentel simply pulled up her boat next to that of the vaccination team. The community of Nossa Senhora do Livramento on the Rio Negro in Brazil can only be reached by river. "Beautiful! It hardly hurt," the 72-year-old laughed and shouted, "Viva o SUS!" — "long live Brazil's public health service!" For a long time, right-wing populist President Jair Bolsonaro campaigned against COVID-19 vaccinations in Brazil. But in the meantime, the campaign has taken off. Indigenous people and quilombolas, descendants of African slaves, were among the first to be vaccinated. Raimunda Nonata, 70, lives in a community without power so she got her shot by candlelight. After their vaccination, an elderly woman and her daughter paddle away from the island of Bwama, the largest in Lake Bunyonyi in Uganda. The government in the central African country is trying to supply remote areas with the vaccine. Another journey over the water — but his time, no boat. On the way to the village of Jari in Zimbabwe, this vaccination team had to navigate a flooded road. According to the African Union's health agency, Africa CDC, fewer than 1% of the population in Zimbabwe has been fully vaccinated to date. Medical staff came first. Japan may have huge, sprawling cities, but many people also live in small, isolated villages with only a few hundred inhabitants — like here, in Kitaaiki. Residents who can't make it to the next city are happy to welcome the doctor and a vaccine at home. Indonesia launched its vaccination campaign in January. From Banda Aceh, the medical team traveled via boat to remote islands. The vaccines in the cooler are so valuable that the team was accompanied by security personnel. India has been hardest hit by the pandemic in recent weeks. In mid-March, medical personnel made their way to the village of Bahakajari on the Brahmaputra River, where a group of women registered for their COVID-19 shot. None wore face masks or kept a safe distance. Author: Uta Steinwehr see/nm (Reuters, dpa, AFP, AP)  