Helge Lindh has vowed not to back down against hate speech online, but he can't even remember when he received the first death threat. Was it September 2018? Or October? At the time, Lindh had fished a letter out of his mailbox. It was long, threatening, neatly written by hand and almost meticulously complemented with newspaper clippings. And it was the first time that someone had threatened the member of the Social Democrats (SPD) in no uncertain terms: "Keep it up and I'll kill you!" A digital death threat followed in February 2019. At 3 a.m., hours after Lindh had discussed racism with a Black German activist on television, he received the news that there was a bounty on his head and that he had been cleared for execution. "The aggression and concreteness with reference to the interview was even more violent than the message itself, because the death threat was available everywhere on the web," Lindh said. "It seemed very professionally organized by a right-wing network, and that then has its own quality." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mFT1 Lindh, 44 and a member of the Bundestag since 2017, ticks all the boxes to make him  a prime target for violent German nationalists. He advocates a humanitarian refugee policy, has repeatedly denounced racism and antisemitism in public, and campaigns actively for the peaceful coexistence of cultures within Germany. His email address on the internet, as is the address of his party office in Wuppertal, where paving stones were thrown through the windows — accompanied by a note from apparently left-wing actors denouncing racism in the migration policy of the federal government, in which the SPD is the junior partner to Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU). As casually as if he were talking about the weather, Lindh said he had received scores of threats, some pledging to mutilate him and others to make him the next Walter Lübcke, the regional politician shot and killed point-blank in his garden by a neo-Nazi. "I've always had pretty good armor," he said. "By now I'm pretty hardened: I've learned to live with my fear. Of course you get more nervous and anxious. You smell a threat everywhere." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3oVd9 Lindh simply deleted many of the messages; he sends others to the nongovernmental organization Hate Aid, a counseling center for victims of digital violence, which prosecutes the perpetrators under criminal or even civil law. The death threats go to the security forces. Many people withdraw from online interactions out of a sense self-preservation after receiving internet abuse. Others become more cautious in their public statements so as not to "provoke" further attacks. Lindh refuses to be intimidated. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3f4Sy Invoking the credo that "attack is the best defense," Lindh makes the abuse that he receives public and denounces it. "I don't want to be a victim because of my role," he said. "I make no concessions to hate and fear." Lindh said he would continue to take on his tormentors. "To those who want to humiliate or intimidate me, I don't allow them the triumph, I don't let them win," Lindh said. "After all, many are expecting such threats to be kept secret." Twitter even deleted one of his posts in which Lindh published excerpts of a letter threatening to murder him, calling the content extremist and too cruel. His tweet has been restored. Lindh said the nationalist Alternative for Germany (AfD) — which he called a party with "a political finger on the trigger" — had created the climate for internet abuse. Party members have grown wary of Lindh's appearances at the lectern in the Bundestag. In January, when the AfD sought to declare 2021 the "Year of the German Language," Lindh denounced the party with a speech entirely in rhyme. In April, the AfD call for a "National Action Plan for Cultural Identity," and Lindh countered by denouncing them in a new version of Goethe's Faust. Ex-press officer Christian Lüth had already faced demotion for past contentious comments before being caught on camera talking to a right-wing YouTube video blogger. "The worse things get for Germany, the better they are for the AfD," Lüth allegedly said, before turning his focus to migrants. "We can always shoot them later, that's not an issue. Or gas them, as you wish. It doesn't matter to me." Co-chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch — but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and said of an image showing a drowned refugee child: "We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes." Alice Weidel generally plays the role of "voice of reason" for the far-right populists, but she, too, is hardly immune to verbal miscues. Welt newspaper, for instance, published a 2013 memo allegedly from Weidel in which she called German politicians "pigs" and "puppets of the victorious powers in World War II." Weidel initially claimed the mail was fake, but now admits its authenticity. German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the former co-chair of the AfD told a regional newspaper in 2016. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings." Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border. The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year — leading AfD members moved to expel Höcke for his remarks. Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts — but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said in 2016. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers," she said — even if this meant shooting at women and children. Pretzell, former chairman of the AfD in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and husband to Frauke Petry, wrote, "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony made waves in early 2016 with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. Thousands of unaccompanied minors have sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) — the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, former head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" — the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. During a campaign speech in Eichsfeld in August 2017, AfD election co-candidate Alexander Gauland said that Social Democrat parliamentarian Aydan Özoguz should be "disposed of" back to Anatolia. The German term, "entsorgen," raised obvious parallels to the imprisonment and killings of Jews and prisoners of war under the Nazis. Gauland was roundly criticized for a speech he made to the AfD's youth wing in June 2018. Acknowledging Germany's responsibility for the crimes of the Nazi era, he went on to say Germany had a "glorious history and one that lasted a lot longer than those damned 12 years. Hitler and the Nazis are just a speck of bird shit in over 1,000 years of successful German history." Author: Dagmar Breitenbach, Mark Hallam Lindh has had to pay a high price for his fight against hate: German friends have abandoned him. But Lindh has also received much encouragement, some of which he would not necessarily have expected. There were even solidarity demos outside his party office — which in turn drew further death threats. "It was impressive how many victims of racism wrote to me saying that they were always there for me, that they would protect me if I needed help," Lindh said. "I thought that was great, yet I'm not a victim of racism at all, but of people who are racists." This article has been translated from German. While you're here: Every Tuesday, DW editors round up what is happening in German politics and society, with an eye toward understanding this year's elections and beyond. You can sign up here for the weekly email newsletter Berlin Briefing, to stay on top of developments as Germany enters the post-Merkel era.  