Hello and welcome to DW's coverage of the German Cup final between RB Leipzig and Borussia Dortmund as they meet for the second part of their high-stakes double header. Dortmund won the first meeting 3-2 on Saturday thanks to Jadon Sancho's match-winning heroics, but this time domestic silverware is at stake. The blog goes LIVE one-hour before kick-off when the team line-ups are announced. Join us then, but in the meantime, here's the pre-match lowdown. This is the 78th German Cup final and the 37th consecutive one to be held in Berlin's Olympiastadion. RB Leipzig could become the 26th different winner of Germany's cup competition having failed to win in their only previous attempt when they suffered a 3-0 loss to Bayern Munich in 2019. But they will probably be without winger Angelino, who has not made the trip to Berlin following reports of a dispute between the Spaniard and coaching staff. More on that as we get it... RB Leipzig's Angelino has reportedly been left out of the team squad for the final. "I have good and bad memories [of the German Cup final]. The result last time was unfortunately not what we had hoped for, but it was still a brutally awesome experience because of the atmosphere in Berlin. This year, of course, the whole thing will take place in a different setting without spectators, but the game will still be very emotional. That's why we're really looking forward to Thursday." "I've been here for so long now, it's time to finally bring the cup home again. Winning a title can trigger something in you as a player. You're bound to get hungrier and want more. I think a title would be good for BVB as a whole." Dortmund midfielder Mahmoud Dahoud has been in sparkling form Borussia Dortmund have reached a German Cup final for the 10th time, having previously won the title on four occasions, most recently four years ago against Eintracht Frankfurt (2-1). Victory over Leipzig would see them win their fifth German cup and draw them level with arch-rivals FC Schalke 04 and Eintracht Frankfurt in third place for most German Cup  trophies. "Erling Haaland's qualities are known throughout Europe. But but without him we have scored eight goals in the last two games.  He was back on the pitch for the first time in two weeks — it looked quite good. We have one more training session and we want to wait for the reaction. After that, we'll sit down and see if it's enough for a call-up." Gulasci – Klostermann, Upamecano, Orban – Mukiele, Kampl, Sabitzer, Laimer – Olmo, Haidara – Poulsen Bürki – Piszczek, Akanji, Hummels, Guerreiro – Can, Dahoud, Bellingham – Reus, Sancho – Haaland