Videos showing the effectiveness of Israel's Iron Dome missile defense system against rockets from Gaza have been posted and watched hundreds of thousands of times on the internet. They show dozens of glowing bullets whirring through the air against the black night sky and lighting up brightly against a backdrop of sirens and explosions. An Iron Dome battery consists of a radar unit and a control center that can detect projectiles soon after their launch and calculate their trajectory and target. It takes seconds for an approaching projectile to be detected. This is crucial because depending on how far they live from the Gaza Strip, people in Israel might only have 15 to 90 seconds to get to safety when the sirens start wailing. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3tHDh A battery also has three or four rocket launchers with 20 missiles each should projectiles be headed toward populated areas. The interceptor missiles can be maneuvered in the air. However, they are not designed to strike an approaching projectile but to explode close by and destroy it in the process. Falling debris can, therefore, still cause considerable damage. There are currently 10 mobile Iron Dome systems in use in Israel. According to their manufacturer, Rafael Advanced Defense Systems, which develops military and defense technologies for the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF), a single battery can protect a medium-sized city and intercept rockets fired from a maximum of 70 kilometers away. Experts calculate that 13 systems would be needed in order to defend the entire country. There are currently 10 Iron Dome batteries in use in Israel Iron Dome is designed to intercept short-range rockets and is used to complement other systems that Israel also uses. The head of the Israel Missile Defense Organization, Moshe Patel, said more than 2,400 projectiles had been intercepted in the 10 years through January. According to Rafael Advanced Defense Systems, more than 2,500 had been intercepted — with a 90% success rate. "Every rocket intercepted by the system would have hit a civilian populated area, potentially causing severe damage and casualties," according to the IDF website. It only takes seconds for Iron Dome to intercept approaching projectiles The IDF claims that more than 1,000 rockets have been fired on Israel since the beginning of the week but that 200 of them did not clear the border and landed within the Gaza Strip. The radical Islamist militant group Hamas seems to be relying on the strategy of firing a whole tirade of rockets in quick succession in order to test Iron Dome and bring it to its limits. One missile is reported to cost about €66,000 ($80,000). This is one of the reasons why they are only launched when a projectile is heading towards a populated area. The US helped fund the development of the Iron Dome system and has since bought two batteries itself. Israel targeted Khan Yunis in the Gaza Strip on Wednesday morning. The attacks have escalated in the past few days. People evacuate a building targeted by an Israeli strike in Gaza City. At least 56 have been killed in the Gaza Strip. Militants have also fired rockets into Israel, killing at least six people. Israeli officials say the military is targeting buildings that house the offices of militant groups or their leaders The Islamist group Hamas, which rules the Gaza Strip, fired rockets on Tel Aviv on Tuesday night. Israel's missile defense system protects the city and destroys projectiles in the air or diverts them so that they cause as little damage as possible. But the Iron Dome missile defense system does not offer 100% protection. When the sirens go off, Israelis know that they have to find safety in shelters as quickly as possible. Even if it's 3 a.m. Even if rockets can be repelled, falling debris is also dangerous. Here, a house in Yehud, just north of Israel's Ben Gurion Airport has been destroyed. The Israeli army claims that more than 1,000 rockets have been fired at Israel from Gaza since Monday. People who fail to make it to shelters in time try to take cover as best they can, like these people in Ashkelon about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the Gaza Strip. In recent days, there have been many clashes between Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli security forces in a variety of cities, including here in Hebron, in the West Bank, which is occupied by Israel. Demonstrators threw stones and other projectiles. Security forces have used stun grenades, tear gas and rubber bullets against Palestinians protesting forced evictions in East Jerusalem. As it does not look like there will be any deescalation for some time, some Palestinians in Gaza City have taken refuge at the UN compound for fear of further airstrikes. Author: Uta Steinwehr  