Daniel Santos has long dreamt of striking it rich in the cryptoworld. The young Spaniard has made a name for himself as Mr. Santos via a YouTube channel of the same name which enjoys a following of 300,000 active watchers. Calling on his intimate knowledge of all things crypto, he launched a digital currency network in Mexico four years ago called Woonkly that aimed to finance social projects with cryptocurrencies. Now he's returned from the United States, where he lived for a few years, to settle in Spain — currently said to be the hottest place in Europe for the global cryptocommunity. At the moment, Spain is home to about 1,200 companies devoted to creating alternative digital currencies. Daniel Santos has decided to join Crypto Plaza, a technology startup incubator based in Madrid that offers coworking spaces and the technical infrastructure surrounding applications running on the so-called blockchain network environment. The country on the southern periphery of the European Union was among the early adopters of the blockchain technology and is readily embracing the myriads of digital coins that have emerged as new forms of virtual payment services. Bitcoin is thought of as a digital currency because it exists only virtually, without any physical coins or notes. It resides in a decentralized, encrypted network that is independent of commercial or central banks. This allows Bitcoin to be exchanged under the same conditions all around the globe. It's also a cryptocurrency, because it uses encryption to conceal users' identities and activities. The cryptocurrency was first publicly described in 2008 by an unknown person — or group of people — who used the name Satoshi Nakamoto. Its implementation began in January 2009, when it was released as open-source software. There are three different ways to acquire Bitcoin: First, you can buy the cryptocurrency with legal tender (e.g. dollars and euros) at online exchanges such as Coinbase or Bitfinance. Second, you may accept Bitcoin as a payment in exchange for your products and services. And third, you can create your own Bitcoins in a process known as mining. Before you can buy Bitcoin you have to install so-called wallet software onto your computer. It contains a public key (your address) as well as a private key that allows only the owner of the wallet to send or receive cryptocurrency. Smartphones, USB sticks or any other digital hardware or cloud-based data storage can serve as wallet. Without the digital wallet, no Bitcoin for you. To see how the process of paying with Bitcoin works, let's imagine Mr. X wants to buy a hat from Ms. Y. First thing Ms. Y needs to do is send Mr. X her public wallet address, which is like her Bitcoin bank account. After Mr. X has received the public wallet address of Ms. Y, he signs off the transaction with his private key to verify that he is indeed the sender of the digital currency. The transaction is now stored on the Bitcoin blockchain with thousands of other transactions that are made with Bitcoin every day. Now Mr. X's transaction is broadcast to all other participants in the peer-to-peer blockchain network, which are also called nodes. Essentially, they are private computers, or "miners," which verify the validity of his transaction. After that, the Bitcoin gets sent to Ms. Y's public address, where she can now unlock the transfer with her private key. Theoretically, everyone can become a "miner" in the blockchain network. But most of it is done in huge computer farms that boast the necessary computing power. Bitcoin processing keeps transactions secure by chronologically adding new transactions (or blocks) to the chain and keeping them in the queue. The Bitcoin transaction between Mr. X and Ms. Y is finally included in a vast public ledger, the blockchain, where all confirmed transactions exist as blocks. As each block enters the system, all users are made aware of each transaction. Who has sent how many Bitcoins to whom, however, remains anonymous.Once confirmed, a transaction can't be reversed — by anybody. Miners generate new Bitcoins when they process transactions, which they do using special decryption software. Once solved, a new block is added to the chain and the miner is rewarded with Bitcoins. China is the biggest miner in the Bitcoin network. It's cheap electricity from coal gives it a competitive edge over rival miners, mainly in the US, Russia, Iran and Malaysia. Due to the massive computing power needed for crypto mining and processing, the Bitcoin network consumes vast amounts of energy — about 120 terrawatt hours of power per year. University of Cambridge's Bitcoin Electricity Consumption index, has calculated the cryptocurrency requires more energy than each of the countries shown in blue on the map above. Graphics: Per Sander Text: Gudrun Haupt Author: Gudrun Haupt The latest entry to Spain's booming cryptoculture, for example, is the El Corte Ingles department store, which proudly claims to be the biggest chain of its kind in Europe in terms of revenue. The company was among the Continent's online payment pioneers, issuing digital payment and bonus cards named Cortisoles long before its competitors. Now they've launched Bitcor, a cryptocurrency that aims to establish the company in the new world of digital payment services well ahead of their commercial breakthrough. Javier Rivas, blockchain expert and lecturer at the Madrid EAE Business School, said EL Corte Ingles is walking in the footsteps of US retail giant Walmart, which introduced its WalmartCoin back in 2019, pegging the token to the US dollar and offering discounts for payments with it. The Spanish department store, he told DW, was promoting its financial services, including consumer credit and insurance portfolios, with the Bitcor token expected to become the preferred payment method of its 11.5 million debit card holders, he added. Javier Rivas has observed Spain's rapid ascendency as a hub of cryptocurrency development Spain's impressive cryptorevolution doesn't come as a surprise. When the country's railway network was expanded about 10 years ago, the Spanish government seized the moment and laid a comprehensive fiber-optic network. This has become the cornerstone of the current success in the digital economy. About a year ago, the government in Madrid also established a so-called national sandbox — a realtime testing platform that is used to ensure regulatory compliance and security checks for financial operations, including cryptocurrencies and blockchain networks. Spanish banks like the country's biggest lender, Caixabank, meanwhile, are investing in sandboxes of their own to keep abreast of developments. According to market watcher Coin ATM Radar, Spain ranks fifth in a global list of countries with the most ATMs for Bitcoin, the world's largest digital currency. It has 110 publicly accessible crypto-ATMs, compared with 9,046 in the US, 921 in Canada, 290 in the UK and 150 in Austria. Recently, tourism officials in the capital Madrid said they are working on a cryptocoin to facilitate payment in the sector. Hospitality chain Hammam Al Andalus raised €24 million ($29.30 million) by issuing its Helysia token, an effort that was supported by Spanish banking regulator CNMV. The company needed the funding to finance its expansion and offered a 10% discount on investments in the euro-pegged coin. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3serq Businesses like Hammam Al Andalus and El Corte Ingles are, of course, primarily interested in using their digital tokens to secure their customer base long-term, said Javier Rivas. "I'd rather call their coins smart money and not new digital currencies," he told DW, as he made the distinction between a digital coin and a token coin, the latter not running on a blockchain network of its own, like, for example, Bitcoin or Ethereum. No matter if it's a token coin or a digital coin, the small Spanish town of Lebrija has shown earlier this year that both can be put to good use. Introducing the Elio digital token to pay out pandemic assistance to families, authorities made sure local businesses were supported with the digital money as well. The Elio became a success and convinced even those in the town who were hugely critical of cryptocurrencies and other new-fangled technologies that are currently classified under the term "decentralized finance" (DeFi). Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3px5P Nevertheless, enthusiasts like YouTuber Daniel Santos are still a long way from achieving widespread acceptance of alternative currencies and digital payment methods. "I want to change the world for the better," he told a Crypto Plaza online gathering in Madrid recently, as he hailed cryptocoins as effective hedges against accelerating inflation in normal currencies. His latest project is what he calls a neobank and comes under the name Saurus. It is intended to facilitate payments in crypto for goods and services by circumventing the regulatory hurdles set up by commercial and central banks. In Spain more than anywhere else in Europe, fewer people seem to be shaking their heads in disbelief at such a claim, because here the cryptocurrency train is already well underway. This article was adapted from German.   