State leaders from the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) took part in an urgent summit on Sunday to discuss the political crisis in Mali. Ghana's President Nana Akufo-Addo hosted the talks in the Ghanaian capital Accra after Mali's constitutional court named Colonel Assimi Goita as the country's new president. Goita — who sparked outrage after detaining the country's transitional president and prime minister on Monday — arrived in Accra on Saturday for preliminary talks. Akufo-Addo kicked off Sunday's talks with the leaders from the region by stressing the community's "commitment to a peaceful transition" while also warning of the "grave consequences" the political turmoil could have. Like thousands of other Dogon, Isaie Dignau left the region of Bandiagara in central Mali over the insecurity caused by the ongoing conflict. He found refuge with his family in Nana Kenieba, a village some 150 kilometers (93 miles) south east of the capital Bamako. According to Isaie, Dogon griots had predicted this migration to lands once called "Mande" hundreds of years ago. According to legend, the Dogon are originally from "Mande", the region of the Malinke people. Some time between the 11th and 13th centuries, they were forced to leave amid the Islamization of West Africa. After a long migration they settled around the famous Bandiagara clff in what is today the Mopti region. Now, due to the jihadi threat, they are returning home. The Dan Na Ambassagou hunters are the main Dogon militia in Mopti. The conflict in Mali began in 2012 and in 2016 it spread in the central part of the country. As tensions among ethnic groups rose, self-defence militias were formed. The intercommunal fighting is caused by lack of fertile lands and water in an area affected by jihadism. Mali is facing a serious humanitarian crisis in regions already underdeveloped. Food insecurity affects up to 1.3 million people. Some 347,000 people were forced to flee their lands. Many have sought refuge in neighboring countries but most are internally displaced and sheltering in the south of Mali and refugee camps close to urban areas. Many Dogon are directly involved in the conflict. Seidu Doungo fought with the Dan Na Ambassagou in the Koro region. In 2020, he decided to lay down his weapons. His family was threatened by raiding jihadis and he no longer hand a source of income from their land. When Seidu heard about Nana Kenieba, he decided to leave Koro to find peace in "Mande".. The majority ethnic group in Nana Kenieba is Malinke. Segou Keita is the village chief. He has welcomed Dogon who return in accordance with the ancient prophecy. The community supports them financially and includes them in decision-making. Inside the central hut of Nana Kenieba, Isaie Dignau shows some villagers a map where the plots of land are located. Since 2016, around 400 Dogon families, mainly from Mopti, have settled here. Each household received two hectares of land and food. Dogon is a secular ethnic community, where people are free to profess Islam, Christianty and ancestral belief. The village has two mosques and two churches, with corresponding Koranic schools and catechism classes, a sign of a new-found climate of openness. The peaceful environment of Mande seems far removed from the conflict in Mali. The community lives in fear that the jihadis could arrive and start a conflict. In Nana Kenieba, villagers have organized patrols that keep bandits out for now. Author: Davide Lemmi, Ugo Lucio Borga, Marco Simoncelli Goita drew widespread criticism for his coup-within-a-coup that threatened to bring Mali's planned democratic transition to an end. The colonel had assumed the chair of interim vice president after leading a coup in August last year that removed President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. As interim vice president, he then forced interim President Bah Ndaw and interim Prime Minister Moctar Ouane to resign. Akufo-Addo said that this unconstitutional change of government was a violation of the transition agreement that had been brokered by ECOWAS. The agreement stated that the interim vice president cannot succeed the interim president. The junta's takeover has brought the promise to hold democratic elections in early 2022 into question. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mNUJ ECOWAS has thrown its weight behind the transition, having used sanctions to force the junta to initially agree to the civilian interim government. "I reiterate, on behalf of ECOWAS, our continued commitment to the peaceful transition in Mali with the basic goal of restoring democratic government and stability in Mali and in our region," the Ghanaian president said. French President Emmanuel Macron condemned the coup in an interview published on Sunday, saying that he "could not stay by the side of a country where there is no longer democratic legitimacy or a transition". He also warned that he would withdraw the 5,100 French troops from the country if it takes a turn towards Islamism. French soldiers have been in the country since 2013 as part of an operation against Islamist militants. A suspected jihadist terror attack on Sunday killed four civilians and a police officer in southern Mali. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31p0K ab/mm (AFP, dpa) 