Sheikh Karim, a seafarer in the eastern Indian state of Odisha, spends hours on his phone everyday, scrolling through overseas shipping jobs he can't apply for. Along with the Philippines and China, India is one of the largest suppliers of crew to the global shipping industry. But a huge surge of COVID-19 infections in the country and a shortage of vaccines have left ship workers like Karim high and dry. Global ports are now slamming doors on Indian crew and vessels. Companies are insisting on vaccinated workers and seafarers, spelling bad news for an already stretched maritime sector. Karim, who is a trained oiler, a junior worker who maintains and repairs ship engines and machinery, said he's been trying repeatedly to find a slot on a designated government website for a COVID-19 vaccine in his home city of Balasore. But, so far, without luck. "I don't know when I'll get the first dose of the vaccine. It's frustrating because I see jobs advertised for cargo ships and tankers which pay in dollars," the 27-year-old told DW, adding he desperately needs the income. "Living costs are rising and there are additional health care and hospital expenses for my family and relatives who are getting COVID." Instead, Karim now works as a mechanic in an automobile workshop. He says it pays a fraction of the around $1,500-$1,800 (€1,238-€1,485) that he would typically make each month working on a foreign vessel. People — many without masks — shop at a vegetable market in Mumbai. India has been struggling to contain a massive coronavirus outbreak, with nearly 24 million infections recorded to date. The country has logged around 260,000 deaths linked to the virus. According to medical experts, these numbers are vastly underreported. A young man unloads empty oxygen cylinders for refilling in Srinagar, Kashmir. India's health infrastructure has been under severe stress in recent days, with several states reeling under the shortage of medical oxygen, essential drugs, beds, health workers and vaccines, among other vital supplies. Volunteers at a nonprofit organization carry bags full of unclaimed ashes belonging to COVID-19 victims at a crematorium in New Delhi. As the intense second coronavirus wave grips India, apocalyptic scenes of mass cremations have emerged, as queues of bodies wait outside overwhelmed crematoriums. A man bathes in cow milk to remove cow dung from his body during "cow dung therapy" at a cow shelter on the outskirts of the city of Ahmedabad. Participants believe cow excrement boosts their bodies' ability to defend against the virus. The Indian government has faced heightened criticism for ignoring scientific evidence and warnings about variants. A worker carries bricks on her head in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The World Health Organization (WHO) has classified the B.1.617 coronavirus variant — first detected in India last October — as a "variant of concern." Epidemiologists note that this variant may be more resistant to vaccines. Policemen check the credentials of delivery personnel from India's leading food delivery service, Zomato, in the southern city of Kochi. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has refused to announce a nationwide lockdown over economic concerns, several states have imposed strict restrictions and nighttime curfews to curb spread of the virus. A woman arrives at a bus stand in Jaipur to leave for her hometown, after authorities in the western state of Rajasthan announced a lockdown. Many people have left bigger cities for their towns and villages in order to avoid a repeat of the massive migrant crisis that accompanied India's first coronavirus lockdown last year. A young man is seen carrying cans of beer as liquor shops in several districts of Uttar Pradesh are reopened. The northern state, led by Modi ally Yogi Adityanath, has registered one of the largest outbreaks in the country. In recent days, several bodies have washed up on the shores of the river Ganges, which runs through the state. Many believe that they belong to victims of the virus. Catholic nuns wear protective face masks as they wait to cast their votes outside a polling station in Kolkata. The government has been under fire for holding regional elections and massive rallies during a time when the country was descending into chaos over the new surge. Since the onset of the pandemic, West Bengal state has recorded more than 1.05 million infections so far. A man dressed as a clown sprays disinfectant outside a house in Mumbai. He told Reuters that he wears other different costumes aside from dressing up as a clown to raise awareness and spread information about the coronavirus. Many in India fear that the second wave is far from stemmed and if the virus spreads unabated, mass grief and mourning may soon be replaced by apathy. Author: Seerat Chabba It's a situation familiar to thousands of seafarers across India who are unable to get out of the country. On the other hand, shipping authorities have also advised Indian crew currently at sea to "desist from signing off from the vessel" until the situation improves. "The main issue is that seafarers have been designated as essential workers, both nationally and in several other countries, which means the government should be giving them vaccinations on priority," said Abdulgani Serang, general secretary of the National Union of Seafarers in India. "But that is not happening in India." He said maritime authorities had set up dedicated vaccination facilities for seafarers in port hospitals in cities like Mumbai, Kolkata and Kochi. "But the main problem is that the vaccines are simply not available," Serang said. India's estimated 240,000 seafarers are predominantly between the ages of 18 and 45, an age group that was supposed to receive Indian-made vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, from May 1. But a shortage of stocks has forced authorities in many states to postpone the jabs. "Unvaccinated Indian seafarers are now at a disadvantage compared to people of other nationalities who could fill their jobs, for example Indonesians or Chinese who have received priority vaccinations in their own countries," Serang said. "There is no blanket ban on Indian crews. But ship owners are worried about taking them." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3tMAm Already, ports like the one in Singapore and Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates have barred ships from changing crew members who have recently traveled from India, making it difficult for seafarers to be relieved at the end of their contract periods. According to reports, the Chinese port of Zhoushan has banned entry for any ships or crew that have visited India or Bangladesh, which has also struggled with a COVID surge in the past three months. "There's so much volatility and uncertainty. The rules are changing all the time," said Rajesh Unni, founder and CEO of Singapore-based Synergy Group, a ship management company. "Most ship owners we talk to say it's too much of a risk to do a crew change by sending people from India." His company has temporarily frozen all crew changes from India. Unni said seafarers coming from India were testing positive for COVID despite quarantine and testing negative before boarding. There are also fears about a more transmissible variant, the B.1.617, which is reported to be behind the acceleration of India's explosive outbreak. Earlier this month, health authorities in France identified the variant among sailors who were sick aboard an oil tanker, which had been to India. Too ill to pilot the vessel, it was dragged into the eastern port of Le Havre by tugboats. The men were put in isolation in a dedicated hotel. Recently, South Africa's port authority said 14 Filipino crew members aboard a cargo ship from India to Durban were quarantined after they tested positive for COVID. The ship's chief engineer died of a heart attack. "The challenge is that tests are unreliable, and the variant is more deadly and spreads like wildfire. It can infect the whole ship, basically immobilizing the vessel," Unni said. India has added hundreds of thousands of cases in recent days, and the total death toll has surpassed 220,000. Cities are running out of space to bury or cremate the dead. An elderly woman suffering from breathing difficulties due to COVID-19 waits to receive free supplemental oxygen outside a Sikh temple on the outskirts of Delhi in Ghaziabad. Many who are struggling for breath due to COVID-19 have flocked to the temple, hoping to secure some of its limited oxygen supplies. Hospitals in Delhi and across the country are turning away patients after running out of medical oxygen and beds. Many have put out urgent notices saying they can't cope with the rush of patients. The Sikh temple in Ghaziabad has come to resemble the emergency ward of a hospital. People all across Delhi are seeking and creating makeshift health care spaces. A health care worker tests blood oxygen levels of a COVID patient inside an ambulance in the eastern city of Kolkata. With people being forced to wait many hours to receive treatment, doctors have been treating people in cars and taxis parked in front of hospitals. A couple wait inside a rickshaw until they can enter a COVID-19 hospital for treatment in the western city of Ahmedabad. Social media and local news footage have captured desperate relatives begging for oxygen outside hospitals or weeping in the street for loved ones who have died waiting for treatment. A young boy at a crematorium mourns the loss of his father, who died from COVID-19. In the last month alone, daily COVID cases in India have increased eight times over — and deaths, 10 times. Health experts have said the actual death toll is probably far higher than the official numbers. This 35-year-old woman is suffering from breathing difficulties due to COVID-19. Like many others, she is waiting in front of a hospital to receive oxygen support. Scientists are concerned that a more infectious "double mutation" of the virus is spreading in India. The family of a COVID victim mourn together outside a mortuary of a hospital in New Delhi. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said India's current infection wave is "particularly dangerous" and that people were falling sick more severely and for longer. "It is supremely contagious, and those who are contracting it are not able to recover as swiftly." The unfolding crisis is most noticeable in India's overwhelmed graveyards and crematoriums. Burial grounds in the capital New Delhi are running out of space. In other cities, glowing funeral pyres light up the night sky. "The virus is swallowing our city's people like a monster,'' said Mamtesh Sharma, an official at Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat crematorium in the central city of Bhopal. India's vaccination program is lagging, with only 10% of the country's population having received one dose, and 1.5% having received both doses. Indians aged 18 and older are now eligible for a vaccine. The United States has said it would send raw materials for vaccine production to help strengthen India's capacity to manufacture more AstraZeneca vaccine. Author: Melissa Sou-Jie Brunnersum With a growing number of seaports and airports closing their doors to seafarers to and from India, shipping companies say it's leading to bottlenecks in crew changes. Several companies are temporarily tapping seafarers from other nations to replace Indians scheduled to board ships. Carl Schou, chief executive of Wilhelmsen, a Norwegian-owned crew provider, said the group sources 15% of its approximately 10,000 workers from India, mainly officers. The company stopped crew changes in India from April 24 until at least the end of May and is looking at other nationalities to plug the gaps. "But it's not as easy as it sounds. Certain segments such as gas and oil tankers have very specific requirements as to competence and levels of experience," Schou said. "Most of our pool of well qualified people come from India. So, all of a sudden, we've lost our most important source of officers. Going into our wider network and finding the right crew that matches the exact criteria is quite a problem." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ssOa Despite the disruption sparked by the health emergency in India, few think it will have any immediate impact on the movement of merchant ships which transport about 90% of global trade. "The vessels are not stopping because of problems with crew changes. A few ships could be delayed, but it won't have an impact on the network or the supply chain," Adhish Alawani, a spokesman for Maersk, the world's largest container shipping company, which has a pool of 4,000 seafarers from India. "The worry is that this is more of a human crisis where we could once again see seafarers staying on board for a much longer period than their contract is for because they can't come ashore and fly home," he said. Last year, border closures and travel restrictions prompted by the pandemic saw an estimated 400,000 seafarers stranded on ships indefinitely, leading to fatigue and mental health and safety issues. Shipping executives say the only way out of the situation is for seafarers to be prioritized in the global vaccination rollout. "Worldwide, there's about 1.6 million seafarers and that's maybe one production day for one of these vaccine makers," Schou said. "Just one day and you've covered all the seafarers who are so important for global trade and to keep the world going."  