A boat carrying at least 160 people capsized Wednesday in the Niger River in northwestern Nigeria, with an unknown number of casualties. The boat was meant to carry no more than 80 passengers and was also weighed down with bags of sand from a gold mine. The incident occurred near the town of Wara, which is on the shores of the Kainji Lake, according to a spokesman of the governor of Kebbi. Abdullahi Buhari Wara, an administrative head of the Ngaski district, said the boat was overloaded as it left central Niger and was traveling on the river, when it broke apart and sank. "A rescue operation is underway but only 22 survivors and one dead body have been recovered," said Wara. "We are talking of around 140 passengers still missing." "The chances to find any more people alive are almost impossible, as the boat capsized last night and people are still underwater," said DW's Nigeria correspondent Fred Muvunyi on Thursday morning. One survivor, Buhari Abubakar, said most of the passengers were women, with children also among the missing. Wara resident Qasimu Umar Wara said locals expected more people to wash to shore in the coming days. "My brother is among the missing. This is the worst boat accident that has happened in this water," he told Reuters. He said most of the passengers were returning from a newly-discovered gold vein in neighboring Niger. The Wara resident said most of the people who take the boat travel in the evening and return in the mornings. "Most of them are petty traders, food vendors and the local miners," he added. Boats capsize fairly regularly in Nigerian and Nigerien waters because of overcrowding and a lack of maintenance, especially during the annual rainy season. Earlier this month 30 people drowned when an overloaded boat broke apart in central Niger. The boat broke in two after hitting a stump during a storm, according to emergency officials. The accidents put pressure on Nigerian authorities to tighten policies on water transportation. “Anyone who wants to do business in water transport just [does] it. They have old boats, there are no safety measures and officials barely control this,” said DW’s Muvunyi. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lRsP kbd/msh (AFP, Reuters)  